<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Advice To The Upcoming Hacker Monarch</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml" title="Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films"/><link rel="next" href="references.xhtml" title="References and Further Reading"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Advice To The Upcoming Hacker Monarch</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="references.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="Advice_To_Upcoming_Hacker_Monarch" class="title">Advice To The Upcoming Hacker Monarch</h2></div></div></div><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/EdHs8tEKYmk">Don’t be too arrogant and/or careless</a> - I don’t want you to get killed prematurely, and it seems God punishes more people for that rather than for being bad.</p><p>Note that Hubris in moderation is still very important as almost all ancient and modern technology (from fire, through Aristotle’s Logic and science, through the Lever, through modern architecture, through automobiles and air and space travel, to computer and computer networks, to this very essay and very word) are product of mankind wishing to defy "gravity" and show his environment that he is not bound by its rules.</p><p>Furthermore, courage and spite is required as a way to avoid the “fear of living”: never fear what some other people think or do not think about you. Furthermore, accept criticism and even encourage people to prove you wrong or even offend you. Like the mightiest Klingon warriors say when they were proven wrong: “What a great day it was for me to die! Thank you for this excellent battle.”.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Don’t feel superior. Even if you are the hacker monarch, everyone else is or can be the most powerful man on Earth, and the Messiah. Even the smallest and most fragile inanimate object, serves an important purpose in God’s (= The King of the Kings of the Kings) world.</p><p>You can never travel the path or survive alone. You need each and everyone and everything out there.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Be Yourself</strong></span>: remember that whatever you do or whoever you are some people will always complain. <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/DocBook5/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/trying_to_please_everybody.html">Please all→Please none</a>. Aim for perfection in imperfection. Remember that <span class="bold"><strong>You’re awesome</strong></span>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Take a good care of yourself. Have a lot of <a class="link" href="http://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/i5Z8XdqTdwE">“Wine, Women &amp; Song”</a>: Good food and drinks (that taste good and are what you desire at the moment); Good company - of any sex ; and clean, creative, enlightening, fun - however amateuristic or of apparent low quality.</p><p>While it’s OK to be busy for short periods of time, don’t become a wage slave who doesn’t eat and drink well, doesn’t socialise, and doesn’t have time to enjoy themselves.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carpe_diem">Seize the day! (= “Carpe diem”)</a> Don’t wait for a special occasion to enjoy yourself or contribute to the world - or usually both. Every day is the <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdsZT7WKjW8">unbirthday</a> of your friends, your fans, everybody, and of you, and it’s a good day to <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QwOU3bnuU0k">remind them that you love them</a>.</p><p>Every day can be the <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RW3rK-giAaM">best day of your life</a> so far.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Don’t be pseudo-<a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utilitarianism">Utilitarian</a>: if you made one person a little happier, then what you did was a blazing success. “He who saved one man, has essentially saved the world entire.”.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Never deny</strong></span> that you are the hacker queen: proudly admit it. Too many hacker monarchs did not acknowledge their own self-worth. Don’t repeat the mistake of Larry Wall and of me, and play “The Invisible” who is arguably the worse kind of hacker monarch.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Be a <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/DocBook5/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/david_and_goliath.html">hacker / action hero</a>: bend the rules, violate them, surprise people, defy social norms, dogma, inertia, prejudice, entropy and gravity, all in order to earn your victory and - be happy and proud doing that.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Be an alpha female (= see “Wesley Snipes” <a class="link" href="http://www.ericsink.com/entries/hg_denzel.html">in this essay by Eric Sink</a>) or a beta female (= “Denzel Washington”) or a little bit of both, but don’t be a Gamma↔Omega female.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Get an active online presence. See <a class="link" href="http://www.reddit.com/r/SummerGlau/comments/291y3r/plan_for_how_summer_glau_can_interact_with_her/">my plan for that and the comments I got</a>. One further note is to avoid <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2bpVrKm9QCc">Shaike Ophir’s “The English Teacher”</a>’s definition of monologue as “One person talking to himself”, which I noticed many celebrities succumb to. The more you reply and interact with the people who reply to your online posts and comments, or otherwise interact with them, and collaborate (engaging in a true dialogue), then the fewer redundant answers will be given, and the better quality the discussion will be.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Be honest and enlightened and constantly stay honest and enlightened. Honesty and enlightenment are processes and one must constantly be committed to become more and more honest and enlightened, or else they immediately became dishonest, cynical and stagnate.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Practice the <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">basics of the philosophy</a> of Saladin, a very noble man, a strategical genius, and one of the most notable hacker kings in history.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you’re in a dilemma or run into some trouble, remember that I and possibly other hacker monarchs emeriti (such as Larry Wall) and your other friends who are hackers and geeks, are always there for you and can give you a fresh perspective on the situation.</p><p>( An independent person is not someone who does everything on their own using feudalism taken to extreme. As long as he or she takes full responsibility for the outcome of their actions, they can ask or even pay for help or advice. )</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Finally, remember - Sic transit gloria mundi! You will most probably not be the hacker monarch forever, because one day you too will create your magnus opus, and a younger (at least in spirit), more awesome, action hero will displace you as hacker monarch, because they want it more badly than you. And they can be a man or a woman or a group, fact or fiction, animal, vegetable, or mineral, etc. And then you too will become the Hacker monarch emerita and actually feel relieved about all that.</p></li></ol></div><p>Have a lot of fun, stay smashing and awesome, and hack on!</p><p>Hail, Saladin! Hackers of the world, unite!</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="references.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> References and Further Reading</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>