<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="SummerNSA_production.xhtml" title="Producing “Summerschool at the NSA” (#SummerNSA)"/><link rel="next" href="Advice_To_Upcoming_Hacker_Monarch.xhtml" title="Advice To The Upcoming Hacker Monarch"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="SummerNSA_production.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Advice_To_Upcoming_Hacker_Monarch.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film" class="title">Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films</h2></div></div></div><p>The open content / Web 2.0 revolution has proven to be a blazing success and a source of decent or better income, esteem, and publicity for many individuals, small companies, large companies, and other organisations. While during the Web 1.0 era, information was hard to find, not reliable, and often hard to contribute to (what Prof. Lawrence Lessig calls "read only" vs. "read/write" in his book <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remix_%28book%29">Remix</a>, which I read and loved.), in the Web 2.0 era, one can build upon information, which is often cited and reliable, change it, enhance it, and perform many remixes as well as <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crossover">crossovers and “mashups”</a>.</p><p>It is my belief that it was I, Shlomi Fish (“Rindolf”), who was the <a class="link" href="http://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/gyrcAfAASev">“Hacker King”</a> (a.k.a “Warrior King/Queen/Monarch” / The best-of-the-best-of-the-best / The Saladin / The Qoheleth / The John Galt / etc.) of that revolution. To quote what Quark from the Star Trek franchise said about the <a class="link" href="http://en.memory-alpha.org/wiki/Grand_Nagus">Grand Nagus</a>, he/she: «has the greatest business mind… always thinking ten, sometimes <span class="bold"><strong>twenty steps ahead</strong></span> of everyone else.» and the kind of person who has <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=same-ideas-as-everybody-else">the same ideas as everyone else only five years earlier</a> and thus is named a lunatic.</p><p>Nevertheless, my reign as Hacker Monarch has reached its end with the writing of the screenplay, <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">Summerschool at the NSA</a>. The latter mixed and matched Judaism (Tanakh, Talmud, and Israelism), Buffy the Vampire Slayer, the <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xkcd">xkcd</a> web comic, the “99 problems” meme, the old “Publish or Perish” adage, the deeds and words of <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">Saladin</a>, open source and open content, some modern but not unthinkable technology, love/romance/sex/relationships, pop culture, and humour, and more into what was essentially a realism, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real_person_fiction">Real Person Fiction</a>, story. Furthermore, it featured fictionalised versions of Sarah Michelle Gellar, Summer Glau, and General Keith Alexander, who was the director of the NSA at the time. I also ended up seeing it as my modernisation of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlas_Shrugged">Ayn Rand’s Atlas Shrugged novel</a>, which was her magnus opus as Hacker Monarch (while still building upon it, referencing it, and going against some of it original premises).</p><p>Like Atlas Shrugged, “Summerschool at the NSA” was eventually understood to be my magnus opus, and I passed the baton to someone else, Summer Glau, and thus mostly concluded the open content/Web 2.0 revolution with a mostly happy ending and a blazing success. <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sic_transit_gloria_mundi">Sic transit gloria mundi</a> (STGM).</p><p>The formalities for concluding all that are:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Directing/producing the feature film or films of “Summerschool at the NSA” in whatever format they shall be done.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Ms. Glau and I meeting somewhere and me asking her these questions, which I'll give along with the answers I expect:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="a"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Question:</strong></span> Are you afraid to die?</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>Answer:</strong></span> There is no correct answer.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Question:</strong></span> Are you <a class="link" href="http://twitter.com/shlomif/status/495825104433979392">afraid to live</a>?</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>Answer:</strong></span> Maybe I have in the past, but I no longer am. I will do and say what seems right and good, whether people like it or not (while still being careful and avoiding being arrogant).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Question:</strong></span> Do you wish to become the Hacker Monarch, while being fully aware of the implications of this role, and taking full responsibility for it?</p><p><span class="bold"><strong>Answer:</strong></span> Yes, I do.</p></li></ol></div></li><li class="listitem"><p>I will <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/me/rindolf/#passing_the_baton">give her my blessed/cursed amulet of power</a>, a plain brown ten-sided die, that was given to me as a present by my friends at the time, and ask her to determine what to do with it next. I urge her not to throw it away or destroy it (by seeing if <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Will_It_Blend%3F">it blends</a> or whatever), since despite its low cost and mundaneness, it is a fine piece of engineering.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I will declare Summer Glau as the presiding hacker queen, and step down from my role, and become a hacker king emeritus.</p></li></ol></div><p>One implication of all this is that we shall finally and almost completely unite these worlds:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>The Academia.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The software industry / open source / Internet / World-wide-web workers.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The “content”/culture creators, both the content industry (e.g: Hollywood, the MPAA, the RIAA, and many smaller local franchises around the world) and many hobbyists, amateur, independent and/or unsigned artists and content producers.</p></li></ol></div><p>This is despite the fact that some of these worlds appeared to be at a constant dispute with each other. This merging of these worlds is similar to <a class="link" href="http://catb.org/~esr/writings/taoup/html/historychapter.html">the merger</a> of the AT&amp;T UNIX/BSD worlds and those of the early PDP-10-based <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ARPANET">ARPA-NET</a> and NSFnet hackers that happened at the early 80s, and that in turn led to the open source / Usenet revolution.</p><p>There will likely be a lot of time to reflect upon my history and achievements during my reign as hacker monarch of the world, but I think the future is more important than the past. I have a lot of potential advice we can use to continue to battle the remaining man-made problems (e.g: bloodshed, suicides, deaths due to arrogance and carelessness, possible present and future environmental problems, unnecessary red tape and regulations, unnecessary hatred, antagonism and distrust, and vandalism) and some <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/DocBook5/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/machines_that_can_give_questions.html">questions</a> for further inquiry. However, it's now also up to the new generation of activists of the upcoming post-open content / post-Web-2.0 revolution (whose nature is yet to be discerned) to build upon the work of the activists and action heroes of the open content revolution, and take the world even more forward.</p><p>So let me just give some pieces of advice to Ms. (Summer) Glau, which are mostly relevant to other people as well.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="SummerNSA_production.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Advice_To_Upcoming_Hacker_Monarch.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Producing “Summerschool at the NSA” (#SummerNSA) </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Advice To The Upcoming Hacker Monarch</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>