<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Producing “Summerschool at the NSA” (#SummerNSA)</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="index.xhtml" title="Call for Action: Finishing Off The Open Content/Web 2.0 Revolution (~2000-2014)"/><link rel="next" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml" title="Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Producing “Summerschool at the NSA” (#SummerNSA)</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="SummerNSA_production" class="title">Producing “Summerschool at the NSA” (#SummerNSA)</h2></div></div></div><p>Your assistance is required in producing the feature film “Summerschool at the NSA” based on <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">my original screenplay</a>. The screenplay is made available under the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC-by) and its text is original. I have designated my <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/cast.html">recommendations for some of the cast</a>, and the film should be capable of being filmed mostly or entirely in a film studio and at a relatively low cost.</p><p>Note however that I encourage any productions whatsoever of the screenplay, including by enthusiastic independent film makers, on <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YouTube">YouTube</a>, and including producing them as voiced animations.</p><p>I also neither mind nor discourage any hacks and deviations from the original screenplay, up to and including featuring <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arnold_Schwarzenegger">Arnold Schwarzenegger</a> sending <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rihanna">Rihanna</a> to kick the NSA’s ass, or <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kermit_the_Frog">Kermit the Frog</a> doing the same with <a class="link" href="http://mlp.wikia.com/wiki/Fluttershy">Fluttershy</a>. (And you may consider both mutations as artistic challenges).</p><p>What I do not want is that nothing will get done, and that there won’t be any film - by anyone - in the forseeable future. So please get to it as soon as you can. I need you, and the world needs you.</p><p>If you create something, please mark it with the <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hashtag">hashtag</a> of <code class="code">#SummerNSA</code>.</p><p>I have written about some <a class="link" href="http://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/MRLntf3xu5Y">profitable business models</a> for creators of online culture, which do not involve ad revenue which is small and has proven to be ineffective. Absent from the post, is selling merchandise (see the famous <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oNZove4OTtI">“Merchandising”</a> excerpt from Spaceballs), and putting selected <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Wonderful">Project Wonderful</a>-like ads, which the web site owner pre-approved of and are non-intrusive. Film makers and artists may wish to deploy them either with “Summerschool at the NSA” or with different cultural works.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="implications_of_the_SummerNSA_film.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Call for Action: Finishing Off The Open Content/Web 2.0 Revolution (~2000-2014) </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Implications Of The “Summerschool At The NSA” Films</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>