<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="status_quo.xhtml" title="Analysis of the Current Situation"/><link rel="next" href="israel_short_term_solution.xhtml" title="Israel’s Short-Term Solution to the Problem"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="status_quo.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="israel_short_term_solution.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="ethical_logical_facts" class="title">Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml#right_to_settle">The Right to Live Everywhere</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml#force_protect">No Person can Force Another to Protect Himself</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml#right_to_bear_arms">Right to Bear Arms</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml#blaming_others_for_ones_problems">Blaming Others for One’s Own Problems</a></span></li></ul></div><p>This section will cover several logical and ethical principles that are necessary for formulating a proper solution. It will explain why they hold and also briefly cover their implications.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="right_to_settle" class="title">The Right to Live Everywhere</h3></div></div></div><p>A Person has a basic right to live everywhere he chooses and can support himself. Depriving a person of his home or banishing him is immoral, because you put a gun against his head and ask him to leave against his will.</p><p>There are many implications to this. One of them is that the Palestinians should be allowed to live in the territories as well as Israelis in Israel. Furthermore, the Jewish settlers should be allowed to stay in the settlements, if they can allow their own protection.</p><p>There is a claim that one can deprive members of different people from the right to inhabit a certain land because the ancestors used to live there. This claim does not hold. Any person can settle anywhere he pleases. This ends the Zionist claim that Palestine belongs to the Jews. Or the Palestinian claim that they are the rightful owners of the Palestine.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="force_protect" class="title">No Person can Force Another to Protect Himself</h3></div></div></div><p>On the other hand, forcing a person to protect someone against his will is immoral. This is simply because it goes against the free will of the person who does the protection. (you put a gun against a person’s head and tell him “Protect someone else!”).</p><p>The implications of this are that Israeli soldiers who at the moment are, against their will, protecting settlements should not be required to do this.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="right_to_bear_arms" class="title">Right to Bear Arms</h3></div></div></div><p>It should be noted that a person has a basic right to bear arms, and carry weapons. Again, this is part of the freedom of the individual.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="blaming_others_for_ones_problems" class="title">Blaming Others for One’s Own Problems</h3></div></div></div><p>A person or group of persons who routinely blame their own problems on others are behaving irrationally. By all means, every group should take responsibility for its own problems.</p><p>It is evident that the Palestinians blame the Israelis for their problems and vice versa and that’s not good.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="status_quo.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="israel_short_term_solution.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Analysis of the Current Situation </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Israel’s Short-Term Solution to the Problem</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>