<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Israel’s Short-Term Solution to the Problem</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml" title="Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)"/><link rel="next" href="israel_long_term_solution.xhtml" title="The Israeli Long-Term Part of the Solution"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Israel’s Short-Term Solution to the Problem</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="israel_long_term_solution.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="israel_short_term_solution" class="title">Israel’s Short-Term Solution to the Problem</h2></div></div></div><p>This is a short-term solution to the problem. However, Israel has many other constitutional problems that make a permanent resolution problematic. They will be discussed in the next section.</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Israeli soldiers should be given a choice of whether or not to protect the settlements. A soldier may decide against protecting the settlements at any time. This is in accordance with the fact that no-one can force a different person to protect someone.</p><p>Those soldiers who will opt out of protecting the settlements will serve in the territorial Israel exclusively.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The settlements can either remain using only their own self-protection and that of the soldiers who are willing to protect them, or its settlers can choose to relocate to Israel, where they be given alternative homes. (as their right as Israeli citizens)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Preferably: stop giving relief to the Palestinians. If it implies establishing a Palestinian state, so be it.</p></li></ol></div><p>That way, the Israelis will no longer need to support the settlements, which are a huge waste of resources, and can safely exit out of the settlements. Protecting Israel against attacks would be easier from within the territorial Israel, without having to protect tens of settlements and their inhabitants.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="israel_long_term_solution.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications) </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> The Israeli Long-Term Part of the Solution</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>