<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What’s Wrong with the Separation Fence?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="geneva_accord.xhtml" title="What’s Wrong with the Geneva Accord"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What’s Wrong with the Separation Fence?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="geneva_accord.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> </td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="separation_fence" class="title">What’s Wrong with the Separation Fence?</h2></div></div></div><p>A suggestion was made to build a separation fence, protecting Israel and the settlements from the Palestinians. This suggestion is wrong from the following reasons:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>It is still based on the assumption that the problem lies in the Palestinians. The Israelis fail to take responsibility for their own problems.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Due to the fact that all the settlements are aimed to be included in Israel’s part of the fence, it would be 1000s of kilometres long in a 250*100 kilometre area. A huge and costly construction project.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>It will be a huge environmental disaster.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Can potentially become a large defence problem. (at times of war).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Will make a lot of legitimate traffic very difficult.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Will make a lot of legitimate traffic very difficult.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>May not prevent the terrorist acts entirely - most suicide terrorists passed through border-passings.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>It is much less effective than withdrawing from the occupied territories.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>It is not something that Israel is allowed to do, according to International Law, and the status of the occupied territories.</p></li></ol></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="geneva_accord.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> </td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">What’s Wrong with the Geneva Accord </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> </td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>