<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Analysis of the Current Situation</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="index.xhtml" title="A Solution to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict"/><link rel="next" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml" title="Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Analysis of the Current Situation</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="status_quo" class="title">Analysis of the Current Situation</h2></div></div></div><p>Before we begin proposing a solution let’s enumerate the various elements of the current situation, be they problematic or not, and explain what’s wrong with them.</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>A Partial Palestinian Autonomy in the West Bank and Gaza</strong></span> - there’s a Palestinian governing body that controls a large part of the occupied territories directly, and affects the rest of the Palestinians. It is headed by the Palestinian Liberation Organization (or the PLO for short).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Many Israeli Settlements in the Occupied Territories</strong></span> - there are many such settlements, each contain several settlers, and they are all heavily protected by the Israeli armed forces.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Palestinian Terrorists perform many acts of terror against Israelis</strong></span>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Israeli Soldiers and Settlers are killing many Palestinians.</strong></span></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Israel supplies relief to the Palestinians so they can survive.</strong></span></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Israeli soldiers are protecting the Jewish settlements</strong></span>. This is a huge consumption of resources to the Israeli military.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>The Israelis are Blaming the Palestinians</strong></span>. Most Israelis believe that the Palestinians are responsible for the current situation.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>The Palestinians blame the Israelis</strong></span>. I don’t know that for sure but it seems logical to assume this.</p></li></ol></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ethical_logical_facts.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">A Solution to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Some Ethical and Logical Facts (and their Implications)</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>