<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What You can do about it?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="summary.xhtml" title="Summary"/><link rel="next" href="links.xhtml" title="Links"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What You can do about it?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="summary.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="links.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="what_you_can_do_about_it" class="title">What You can do about it?</h2></div></div></div><p>Here is a list of things you can do to help the cause of fighting for drug legalisation:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Educate people about it</strong></span>: write something pro drug legalisation online, in blogs, mailing lists, newsgroups, web forums; write your school report about it; publish articles about it in newspapers, tell about it to your friends, etc.</p><p>Note that you should feel free to link to this article, or even quote its text, as long as you give attribution. (See <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/">its open-content, Creative Commons, licence for more information.</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Contact Your Government</strong></span> - write to your representatives and government, and tell them why the prohibition on drugs is harmful and not justified. If possible, vote for representatives that support the legalisation of drugs.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><span class="bold"><strong>Don't work against the cause</strong></span> - if you're a drug-enforcing policeman, then switch to a different department, or quit. If you're an agent of the <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug_Enforcement_Administration">Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA)</a> or a similar organisation - then quit.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Last, but not least - <span class="bold"><strong>don't use illegal narcotics</strong></span>. They have numerous bad medical effects, and using them reduces your credibility as someone who can speak against their prohibition.</p></li></ol></div><p>By acting and propagating the understanding that drugs should be legalised, we can eventually create a strong, vibrant movement against the prohibition on drugs, that can eventually abolish it completely.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="summary.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="links.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Summary </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Links</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>