<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Symptoms</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="index.xhtml" title="Dealing with Hypomanias"/><link rel="next" href="depressed-people-i-know.xhtml" title="People I Know who Suffer from Depressions"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="center warning"><p><b>Note:</b> This document is work-in-progress. Please don’t publish it on news sites, or otherwise link to it in public without the author’s permission. Private linking is acceptable.</p></div><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Symptoms</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="depressed-people-i-know.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="symptoms" class="title">Symptoms</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="symptoms.xhtml#symptoms-of-depression">Symptoms of Depression</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="symptoms.xhtml#symptoms-of-hypomanias">Symptoms of Hypomanias</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="symptoms-of-depression" class="title">Symptoms of Depression</h3></div></div></div><p>Quoting from <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clinical_depression">the Wikipedia</a>, the symptoms of depression are:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Persistent sad, anxious or “empty” mood</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Loss of appetite and/or weight loss or conversely overeating and weight gain</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Insomnia, early morning awakening, or oversleeping</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Restlessness or irritability</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Psychomotor agitation or psychomotor retardation</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Feelings of worthlessness, inappropriate guilt, helplessness</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Feelings of hopelessness, pessimism</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Difficulty thinking, concentrating, remembering or making decisions</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Thoughts of [[death]] or suicide or attempts at suicide</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Loss of interest or pleasure in hobbies and activities that were once enjoyed</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Withdrawal from social situations, family and friends</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Decreased energy, fatigue, feeling “slowed down” or sluggish</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Persistent physical symptoms that do not respond to treatment, such as headaches, digestive problems, and chronic pain</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Decrease/Feeling in motor-speed (time seems to slow down)</p></li></ul></div></blockquote></div><p>These are mostly the external symptoms. While the exact thoughts vary from person to person, here is how I felt:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>I felt I was bad and evil. That I was a bad person, having a bad influence on the world, and that “God hated me”.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I felt this was my true state, and that my happy, capable, intelligent and active state was due to “a pact with the devil” or something along these lines.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I found that the thoughts haunted me, that I couldn’t really sleep, and was afraid of thinking.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I believed the entire world was bad and kept perceiving everything as bad.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I had trouble communicating with others, and was afraid to tell them how I felt.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I found it harder to do things that I normally find easy to do. For example, I spent hours on end solving a single math problem. I kept convincing myself that it should be easy which made me feel much worse.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I was consumed and overwhelmed with guilt. I felt guilty for many things that I perceived as wrong.</p></li></ul></div></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="symptoms-of-hypomanias" class="title">Symptoms of Hypomanias</h3></div></div></div><p>In regard to hypomanias, Wikipedia <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypomania">gives the following symptoms</a>:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Pressured speech; rapid talking</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Inflated self-esteem or grandiosity;</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Decreased need for sleep;</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Flight of ideas or the subjective experience that thoughts are racing;</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Easy distractibility and attention-deficit (superficially similar to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder);</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Increase in psychomotor agitation; and</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Steep involvement in pleasurable activities that may have a high potential for negative psycho-social or physical consequences.</p></li></ul></div></blockquote></div><p>It’s a pretty good description of me when I’m hypomanic.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="depressed-people-i-know.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Dealing with Hypomanias </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> People I Know who Suffer from Depressions</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>