<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Document Information</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="community_and_collectivism.xhtml" title="The Open Source Community and Collectivism"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Document Information</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="community_and_collectivism.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> </td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="doc_info" class="title">Document Information</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="doc_info.xhtml#about_the_author">About the Author</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="doc_info.xhtml#why_this_doc_was_written">Why this document was written?</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="doc_info.xhtml#software_used_in_creation">Software Used in the Creation of this Document</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="doc_info.xhtml#copyright">Copyright</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="doc_info.xhtml#thanks">Thanks</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="about_the_author" class="title">About the Author</h3></div></div></div><p>My name is Shlomi Fish and I am a user, developer and advocate of open-source software. I also use commercial software, if I need to, but usually don't enjoy using it quite as much as the open-source equivalents. I am also a firm believer in Objectivism and Neo-Tech.</p><p>You can learn more about me by visiting <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">my homepage</a>.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="why_this_doc_was_written" class="title">Why this document was written?</h3></div></div></div><p>I once searched Google for "objectivism open source" and came upon an article on Open Source written by an Objectivist in a three part series about the Microsoft trial. However, the article proved to be inaccurate and showed a general misunderstanding of what open source was all about.</p><p>This article aims to be a better attempt at the job, from someone who is an insider of the open source world.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="software_used_in_creation" class="title">Software Used in the Creation of this Document</h3></div></div></div><p>This document was written (and is available) in DocBook/XML, and was rendered into HTML, PDF, and Word RTF using the DSSSL stylesheets, OpenJade, and Jadetex and TeX. The process was managed using GNU make and the files were uploaded using the rsync program.</p><p>The text itself was edited using the <a class="link" href="http://www.vim.org/">Vim</a> text editor. This took place entirely on a Mandrake Linux 9.1 system. All of the above are open source software.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="copyright" class="title">Copyright</h3></div></div></div><p>This work is licensed under a <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons License</a> - The Attribution License Version 2.0 or greater. Year of Copyright is 2003.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="thanks" class="title">Thanks</h3></div></div></div><p>Thanks should go to <a class="link" href="http://nadav.harel.org.il/">Nadav Har’El</a> and <a class="link" href="http://www.zak.co.il/">Omer Zak</a> for reviewing the early drafts of this document and supplying some useful corrections and comments. Thanks also to Einat Ya'akobovitch for inspiring some further additions to the document.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="community_and_collectivism.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> </td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">The Open Source Community and Collectivism </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> </td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>