<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What is Objectivism?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="what_is_open_source.xhtml" title="What is Open Source?"/><link rel="next" href="two_levels_of_morality.xhtml" title="Two Levels of Ethics and How Open Source Measures Against Them"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What is Objectivism?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="what_is_open_source.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="two_levels_of_morality.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="what_is_objectivism" class="title">What is Objectivism?</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="what_is_objectivism.xhtml#about_neo_tech">About Neo-Tech</a></span></li></ul></div><p>Objectivism is a philosophy put forth by Ayn Rand, and later further developed by others. It has a strong emphasis on individualism, objectivity and Capitalism. Objectivism is based on the premise that existence exists and is common to all conscious individuals independently of what anyone think it is. As such it rejects such notions as Subjectivism (that reality is subjective to any individual), and mysticism (that thoughts can alter reality).</p><p>One of the central themes of the Objectivism is that the conscious individual is an end to himself, and should strive to fulfil his own happiness and well-being. It demonstrates that by acting out of their rational self-interest , individuals best benefit others as well.</p><p>Similarly it believes that Altruism (advocating the must to contribute to an external cause) is a harmful notion that one has to reject from within and without. Objectivism does not oppose individuals voluntarily contributing time, effort, or other resources to further the well-being of others. However, it demonstrates that claiming that you are only worthy of living if you help an external cause (the poor, your country, your religion, etc) is a harmful notion that has caused a great deal of strife in the world.</p><p>Objectivism Support Capitalism as the ideal way of running a country and vows for Laissez-Faire Capitalism, as the ultimate form of it.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="about_neo_tech" class="title">About Neo-Tech</h3></div></div></div><p><a class="link" href="http://www.neo-tech.com/">Neo-Tech</a> is an idea system based on Objectivism that also incorporates Psychology and Business Management, and reaches even bolder conclusions. Summarizing Neo-Tech is not possible in this scope because the material put forth by it is huge. It's also not particularly relevant because this document is aimed at Objectivists (and non-Objectivists) who have not accepted Neo-Tech yet.</p><p>However, I will borrow some concepts and text from the Neo-Tech literature to demonstrate my points, and hope they will be commonly accepted enough by everyone.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="what_is_open_source.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="two_levels_of_morality.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">What is Open Source? </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Two Levels of Ethics and How Open Source Measures Against Them</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>