<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Uses of File Swapping Services, which are More Legal</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml" title="Refuting Common Arguments against File Swapping"/><link rel="next" href="reflection_on_online_music_stores.xhtml" title="Reflections on Online Music Stores"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Uses of File Swapping Services, which are More Legal</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="reflection_on_online_music_stores.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="legal_uses" class="title">Uses of File Swapping Services, which are More Legal</h2></div></div></div><p>Aside from gaining a copy of a file one didn’t buy, there are many ways to use file sharing services, that are more legitimate:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Getting tracks from a misplaced CD by downloading them from the Internet. Alternatively some people are too lazy to find the CD in their collection, and instead download it from the Internet.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Getting a digital recording of a file from a purchased audio recording like an audio cassette or a Vinyl record.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Getting the video clip of a song one has bought. These are usually hard to acquire separately.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Try before you buy.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Sharing songs that were declared freely-distributable by their originators.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Getting singles with different variations for albums that were purchased, especially a long time after the release of the singles, when they are very hard to find.</p></li></ol></div><p>Prohibiting file swapping entirely will, thus be like throwing the baby along with the water. Nevertheless, all of this is secondary to the fact that preventing the non-restricted non-commercial distribution of artworks is bad.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="reflection_on_online_music_stores.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Refuting Common Arguments against File Swapping </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Reflections on Online Music Stores</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>