<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>About This Document</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml" title="Analysis of the Quality of the Various Freecell Solvers"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">About This Document</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> </td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="about" class="title">About This Document</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_copyrights">Copyrights</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_author">About the Author</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="about_copyrights" class="title">Copyrights</h3></div></div></div><p>This work is licensed under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/">Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License</a> (or at your option a greater version of it). The CC-Attribution is almost Public Domain except for a requirement to make an attribution to the original author.</p><p>It was written by <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish</a> who also holds the copyrights.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="about_author" class="title">About the Author</h3></div></div></div><p>Shlomi Fish was born in Israel in 1977, and has lived there most of his life. He is a user, developer, advocate and activist of Open Source Software. His greatest single contribution so far in this area has been <a class="link" href="http://fc-solve.shlomifish.org/">Freecell Solver</a>, a Public Domain Library for solving games of Freecell and other types of Solitaire. However, he also <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/projects/">initiated several other projects</a> and <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/contributions/">made important contributions to projects he did not initiate</a> some of them very large scale. Recently, most of his contribution were <a class="link" href="http://cpan.uwinnipeg.ca/~shlomif">perl distributions he uploaded to CPAN</a> under his username.</p><p>Fish's work on Freecell Solver and other open source projects, and the fact he is interested in many software management techniques has led him to write <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/">a large number of articles</a>, and weblog entries which describe his unique views as a developer of mostly portable software.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="about_acknowledgements" class="title">Acknowledgements</h3></div></div></div><p>Thanks to Mr. Gary Campbell, the author of "FCELL.COM" whose original message provided the inspiration for this article. Thanks to <a class="link" href="http://www.zak.co.il/">Omer Zak</a>, who went over an early draft of this article and supplied many useful comments. Thanks to many people on the IRC (= Internet Relay Chat) who have read the article and comments, and chose not to be explicitly credited.</p><p>Finally, thanks to all the past and present people who helped me with Freecell Solver, and with the rest of my "Free and Open Source Software" (= FOSS) endeavours.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> </td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Analysis of the Quality of the Various Freecell Solvers </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> </td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>