<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>How Technology is Empowering Youth</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml" title="What the Departing Pope Taught me about Twitter/etc."/><link rel="next" href="learned_from_rpgs.xhtml" title="What I Learned from Role Playing Games"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">How Technology is Empowering Youth</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="learned_from_rpgs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="empowering_youth" class="title">How Technology is Empowering Youth</h2></div></div></div><p>During the Middle Ages, the apprentices of craftsmen graduated to become masters, and started their own shops, at a much younger age than 18. Today, most people graduate from high school at that age, and are expected to remain disadvantaged until then. There isn’t a good reason why the youth of today should not be able to make useful contributions to arts, sciences, philosophy, and entertainment, despite their young age and inexperience.</p><p>Here are some examples:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Dmitri Gaskin is a core developer of both jQuery and Drupal and gave a <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mwKq7_JlS8">talk about jQuery on Google Tech Talks</a>, while being 12 years old.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Maria Aragon was 10 years old when she was recorded performing <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xG0wi1m-89o">a cover</a> of Lady Gaga’s song “Born This Way”, which has received over 50 million views on YouTube as of April 2013 (and which I like better than the original).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Much previously, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a> changed the fate of the cold war, when being 10 years old, by the simple act of writing a letter.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>In the 18th century, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Friedrich_Gauss">Carl Friedrich Gauss</a> started making important contributions to mathematics from a very early age.</p></li></ol></div><p>Our contemporary culture expects kids (what Americans refer to as children, “pre-teens”, and “teenagers”) to remain “innocent”, naïve and inexperienced, and immature, and, as a result, most of them behave accordingly.</p><p>As I noted previously, Jennifer Lawrence was unusual in having received the Oscar’s at the relatively young age of 22. ( Previously, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marlee_Matlin">Marlee Matlin</a> won it when she was 21 years old, back in 1986, but it was an isolated case. ). I anticipate, and hope, that Lawrence’s winning will bring forth an age where some even younger film makers, receive the Academy Awards. Perhaps as young as being 10 years old - perhaps younger.</p><p>The Internet and other modern technologies empower many other previously encumbered sections of the population aside from people of certain ages, but it's high time we recognise, that we enter a world where young people are more empowered.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="learned_from_rpgs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">What the Departing Pope Taught me about Twitter/etc. </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> What I Learned from Role Playing Games</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>