<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Hackers Own The World</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="tie_your_camel.xhtml" title="“Put your faith in Allah, but tie your camel”"/><link rel="next" href="best_warriors.xhtml" title="Hackers Make the Best Warriors"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Hackers Own The World</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="tie_your_camel.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="best_warriors.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="hackers_own_the_world" class="title">Hackers Own The World</h2></div></div></div><p>Hackers like David are the true holders of power in the world. In the Jewish Bible, the myth of David is muddled by him later becoming a tragic hero, and that his only true love, the sexy, and likely minded, female hacker <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michal">Michal</a> becoming barren and supposedly jealous, but there are plenty of other hackers, both living and fictional, in the world whose story had a happy ending. And here's the thing: this is what an <span class="bold"><strong>Action Hero</strong></span> is all about - he defies the rules, bends the rules, and eventually wins. A tragic hero on the other hand is bounded by many invisible rules, accept his fate, and cannot win. So Action is the exact opposite of Tragedy. (And to truly see why this is true, you should watch and listen to the 1m43s-long <a class="link" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Z9Ismh1elM">trailer for Shakespeare’s Hamlet starring Arnold Schwarzenegger</a> from the excellent film <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Action_Hero"><span class="emphasis"><em>Last Action Hero</em></span></a>.) I also guarantee you that this very essay is not perfect, and that’s OK, because I’m a hacker and like to bend the rules, and while I care about quality, I also care about getting something - anything - out of the door quickly. With the help of editors, I can always fix the essay later, in case a prestigious publication such as Time Magazine or Playboy would want to publish it, but if I wait until it is letter-perfect before I publish and announce it, then it will be a big waste of time.</p><p>I also realised that even though I placed my <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/stories/">stories and screenplays</a> under the <code class="code">/humour/</code> section of my homepage, they were also almost always also stories of action. Many action films now contain a lot of humour, and humour films and even dramas are often action films in disguise (and that includes <span class="emphasis"><em>Silver Linings Playbook</em></span>). Many people complained that each and every popular Hollywood film now contains a mixture of action, love and sex, humour, drama, and naturally - a happy ending. However, my stories also have all that, and during writing them, I wasn’t trying to make their “ratings” higher - just to write what was on my mind, and to make the story as fun as possible. And as surprisingly as it sounds, some of the most ancient myths (e.g: the stories in the Hebrew Bible, or those of the Greek mythology) also contained all that in their own old, and now antiquated, way.</p><p>Many people will think I’m being blasphemous by paraphrasing the story of David and Goliath, or the Hadith about Muhammad, and spicing them up a little, but the thing is — it makes these stories something alive and dynamic because our times are different. Shakespeare’s plays were narrated as they were during his times, but reading them now is boring. And that is because our times are different (and hopefully better).</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="tie_your_camel.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="best_warriors.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">“Put your faith in Allah, but tie your camel” </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Hackers Make the Best Warriors</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>