<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What I Learned from Role Playing Games</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="empowering_youth.xhtml" title="How Technology is Empowering Youth"/><link rel="next" href="all_truth_is_gods_truth.xhtml" title="“All Truth is God’s Truth”"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What I Learned from Role Playing Games</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="empowering_youth.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="all_truth_is_gods_truth.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="learned_from_rpgs" class="title">What I Learned from Role Playing Games</h2></div></div></div><p>I used to play <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tabletop_role-playing_game">Tabletop role-playing games</a> such as Dungeons &amp; Dragons during the 8th and 9th grade until I quit, and it provided some important insights for me about real-life. The first one was about the importance of being <span class="bold"><strong>resourceful</strong></span>: think outside the box, come up with creative solutions, don’t think in terms of yes vs. no.</p><p>The second one is the D&amp;D concept of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_point">experience points</a> which the characters gain and later can invest in improving their skills or acquiring new ones. Real life has a similar concept: time. We can spend our time performing tasks, which in turn will enhance one or more of our skills. The time one spends writing an essay, a blog post or a story, will enhance their writing skills, and their personal philosophy, and will make it easier for them to write more in the future. The time invested cooking will make one a better cook, and will make it easier to cook in the future.</p><p>The more time we invest in honing a certain skill, the easier it is to become better and better in it.</p><p>One complication to all that is the sad phenomenon of <a class="link" href="http://shlomif.livejournal.com/44643.html">“Psyche Death” or “Growth Death”</a> where a person become more and more cynical and their mind deteriorates, while he continues to be alive. This makes the sum of his abilities and skills lesser and lesser. But a person can reverse their psyche death or growth death easily enough by first acknowledging it and then reversing it.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="empowering_youth.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="all_truth_is_gods_truth.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">How Technology is Empowering Youth </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> “All Truth is God’s Truth”</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>