<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Machines That Can Give You Questions</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="david_and_goliath.xhtml" title="David and Goliath"/><link rel="next" href="chuck_norris.xhtml" title="Chuck Norris"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Machines That Can Give You Questions</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="david_and_goliath.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="chuck_norris.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="machines_that_can_give_questions" class="title">The Machines That Can Give You Questions</h2></div></div></div><p>Back when <a class="link" href="http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Pablo_Picasso">Pablo Picasso</a> was asked for commenting about computers, he said “But they are useless. They can only give you answers.” and in a sense he was right, because most computers at his time were used for one-off (and time-consuming) calculations and simulations. But there was another use of computers that was still in its infancy then and unknown: computer networking. But as technology improved, it became more and more powerful and pervasive.</p><p>The 1986 film <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jumpin%27_Jack_Flash_%28film%29"><span class="emphasis"><em>Jumpin' Jack Flash</em></span></a> starring Whoopi Goldberg (which I highly enjoyed and can recommend) exemplified the power of early computer communications, though they were still in their infancy. The early popular Internet around the late 90s, with the so-called <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_1.0">“Web 1.0”</a> was a hodgepodge of static web sites (often at GeoCities), lots of useless or incomplete information, search engines that were still not very good, and naturally, lots of fan pages of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer_%28TV_series%29">Buffy</a>, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Michelle_Gellar">Sarah Michelle Gellar</a> (whom I can retrospectively tell was the Alpha Female of the time), and other contemporary trends such as <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Potter">Harry Potter</a> or <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friends">the <span class="emphasis"><em>Friends</em></span> Television series</a></p><p>If you wanted an interactive many-to-many discussion, you had to use Usenet, or mailing lists, or Internet Relay Chat (IRC), or Slashdot, or whatever.</p><p>That has changed significantly, with the fact that the browser scripting language <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript">JavaScript</a> matured, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki">wikis</a> (= world-editable sites, such as the Wikipedia), web forums and blogs became popular, and search engines (most notably <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Search">Google Web Search</a>) became better. Later on, we’ve seen the rise of web-based social networks such as Facebook, Twitter or Google Plus, which provide a more integrated experience.</p><p>That does not mean that all the old Internet mediums are dying - mailing lists , IRC, and even some Web 1.0 sites (including my own) are still alive and kicking, and people now are increasingly using <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XMPP">Jabber/XMPP/GTalk/GChat</a>.</p><p>Anyway, because computer networking allows humans to communicate with other humans, they can provide you with questions. Lots and lots of questions. So I think Pablo Picasso would have loved the Internet (and other means of online communications such as SMSes, phone calls, mobile phone calls, etc.) of 2013.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="david_and_goliath.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="chuck_norris.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">David and Goliath </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Chuck Norris</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>