<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>My second biggest mistake: not accepting who I am.</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="new_alexandrias.xhtml" title="The New Alexandrias"/><link rel="next" href="trying_to_please_everybody.xhtml" title="Please all → Please none"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">My second biggest mistake: not accepting who I am.</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="new_alexandrias.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="trying_to_please_everybody.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="not_accept_who_I_am" class="title">My second biggest mistake: not accepting who I am.</h2></div></div></div><p>Throughout most of my adulthood, I have been criticised for various things I believed in or liked: the fact I was an optimistic, self-sufficient, and non-cynical person (or Aristotelian); the fact that I liked ponies, Ewoks, and smurfs (so cute!); the fact that I hated being Mr. Macho in real life (and was instead a gentleman among females); the fact that I didn't have a relationship yet; the fact that I placed photos of scantily clad females on some of the wallpapers on my desktop at home (and people claimed I was treating females as sex objects); the fact that I got into <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypomania">hypomanias (literally "below-manias")</a>; the fact that I didn't consume caffeinated or alcoholic beverages at all (“You call yourself a geek?”); the fact that I found porn disgusting instead of arousing; the fact that I chat a lot on IRC, the fact that I listen to mostly pop music; and so on and so forth.</p><p>However, I now realise that these are some of the things that make me who I am, and I shouldn't try to be someone else. Geeks and hackers come in all shapes and sizes, and there is no need to try to fit better among fellow computer hackers, just due to <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/jargon/html/appendixb.html">the portrait of J. Random Hacker</a> in the Jargon file. I do not mind people who deviate from my preferences in some or all respects, but no two people (including no two identical twins) are alike. You should accept who you are too.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="new_alexandrias.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="trying_to_please_everybody.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">The New Alexandrias </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Please all → Please none</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>