<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Importance of Seizing Opportunities</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="honesty.xhtml" title="Honesty"/><link rel="next" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml" title="What the Departing Pope Taught me about Twitter/etc."/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Importance of Seizing Opportunities</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="honesty.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="seize_opportunities" class="title">The Importance of Seizing Opportunities</h2></div></div></div><p>A good hacker knows better than to create imaginary problems. If an opportunity comes into your way - seize it, and don't read into the minds of those who offer it, and their motivations. You were invited to give a talk? Go for it! It doesn't matter if you were invited because you are female, black, Indian, Japanese, young, old or whatever. Were you offered to write a guest post on a weblog? Go for it! Again - it doesn't matter why. A member of the appropriate sex asked you on a date and you like them and find them attractive? Go for it!</p><p>The end result of being cynical and not seizing opportunities and not allowing people to open doors for you is becoming something like the pitiful and tragic character of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Captain_Nemo">Captain Nemo</a> in Jules Verne’s excellent novel <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty_Thousand_Leagues_Under_the_Sea">“Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea”</a> who roams the seas, causing a lot of destruction of lives — all in the name of his own incompetence. The end result of seizing opportunities as you run into them is being happy, and eventually standing on your own. Perhaps up to the point of becoming a superhero such as Saladin, Sir Isaac Newton, Henry Ford, Walt Disney, Albert Einstein, or <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aristotle_Onassis">Aristotle Onassis</a>, who despite their many faults (which were often quite common in their times) were incredibly noble, led a happy life, and died as accomplished and highly-admired people. I hope the living heroes and heroines I admire today will not have to die, or if they do, that their reputation won’t be tarnished by many people who are jealous or envious of their success and competence.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="honesty.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="departing_pope_about_twitter.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Honesty </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> What the Departing Pope Taught me about Twitter/etc.</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>