<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Silver Linings Playbook</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="the_technion_and_loser.xhtml" title="The Technion and the American concept of “Loser” and “Winner”"/><link rel="next" href="jennifer_lawrence.xhtml" title="Jennifer Lawrence"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Silver Linings Playbook</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="the_technion_and_loser.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="jennifer_lawrence.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="silver_linings_playbook" class="title">Silver Linings Playbook</h2></div></div></div><p>A good friend recommended me to watch the film <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silver_Linings_Playbook"><span class="emphasis"><em>Silver Linings Playbook</em></span></a>, and told me it sported a man who had <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipolar_disorder">Bipolar disorder (or “Manic Depressive disorder”)</a>, which is something I have been suffering from as well. I watched the film and found it imperfect: slow starting, irresponsible, and a little depressing at times. But it was a great film, with some great acting, many jokes and many awkward and funny situations, and many details I could relate to. So it was perfect simply because it was imperfect. Films that are too perfect are too boring.</p><p>Anyway, the theme of the film was that you can be happy and content even if it appears you are a “loser”. Despite the fact that I am still living with my parents at 35, that I've never been in a relationship with a girl (and I am a straight guy), that I had a hard time keeping a job as a programmer, and it's been a while since I've gone out of Israel, I am not a loser, and neither probably are you.</p><p>That put aside, I still want fame, recognition, money, and becoming a household name. It's just what I want and what I think I can do. That's part of who I am, and part of what I think I can do.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="the_technion_and_loser.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="jennifer_lawrence.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">The Technion and the American concept of “Loser” and “Winner” </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Jennifer Lawrence</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>