<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>“Put your faith in Allah, but tie your camel”</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="we_all_have_a_master.xhtml" title="We all have a master, and should be humble"/><link rel="next" href="hackers_own_the_world.xhtml" title="Hackers Own The World"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">“Put your faith in Allah, but tie your camel”</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="we_all_have_a_master.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hackers_own_the_world.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="tie_your_camel" class="title">“Put your faith in Allah, but tie your camel”</h2></div></div></div><p>The tale (a Hadith) tells that Muhammad saw a shepherd going to pray, while keeping his Camel untied. He asked the shepherd why he kept his camel untied and the shepherd told him: “I put my faith in Allah, that the Camel won’t escape”. So Muhammad told him, and I paraphrase: “Dude, it doesn't work that way! Camels can escape due to nature’s whims. So: put your faith in Allah, but, for the love of God - tie your Camel.” (I am an Israeli, agnostic, non-religious, Jew but I think I can borrow useful memes from Islam, or whatever, if I think they have merit, right? See <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ad_hominem">Ad-hominem</a>.)</p><p>As much as I admire God for his wonderful creation, I still have to help myself, and help him help me. I also am not sure whether I will continue to live after I die, so I'd rather not risk it. God’s creation is wonderful, but there's always a risk I'm being toyed by some <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evil_demon">evil genius</a> (or what Descartes called the “evil demon”) and that reality is not what it seems to be (see Descartes’ <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cogito_ergo_sum">“I think therefore I am”</a> thought experiment, and naturally The Matrix concept from <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Matrix">the first “The Matrix” film</a>). Alternatively, it is possible that God does not exist, and reality is simply whimsical and random, but still enabled the creation of life, intelligence, and finally - human consciousness.</p><p>So it may sound far-fetched to you, but I don't want to die - not now, not in a thousand years - not ever. Maybe it's a scary thought, but I have accepted it now, and wish to enjoy youth rejuvenating biological immortality. And I don't want me or any of the living heroes I admire in the present, both those that I know and those that I have only heard about (including some people I have a feud with, but still know are mostly good people), to ever have to die due to old age, accidents, or misfortune.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="we_all_have_a_master.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hackers_own_the_world.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">We all have a master, and should be humble </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Hackers Own The World</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>