<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Please all → Please none</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="not_accept_who_I_am.xhtml" title="My second biggest mistake: not accepting who I am."/><link rel="next" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml" title="Don’t Just Go with the Flow - Act Now!"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Please all → Please none</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="not_accept_who_I_am.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="trying_to_please_everybody" class="title">Please all → Please none</h2></div></div></div><p>The fable <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_miller,_his_son_and_the_donkey">“The miller, his son and the donkey”</a> tells the story of an old man, his young son and a donkey, who walk from one city to another and no matter how they utilise the donkey (without anyone on it; putting only the son on the donkey; putting only the father on the donkey ; both riding the donkey; etc.), people criticise them for the situation. The conclusion was “Please all and you shall please none”.</p><p>How is it important? Some people, especially those that are jealous or envious of you are <span class="bold"><strong>bound to berate</strong></span> you. You smiled while performing a sad song? Someone will complain. You’re wearing prescription glasses, like I do? Someone will <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/480765130242662400">label you as “half-blind”</a>. You wrote some Star Trek fan fiction? Someone will tell you it’s lame. You wrote Chuck Norris facts or <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lolcat">lolcats</a>? Ditto.</p><p>You're thin? Fat? Chubby? Plump? <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/307702411047350272">Look too normal</a>? Someone is bound to complain.</p><p>So just be happy with who you are.</p><p>Naturally, if enough people complain, and/or you think their criticism has some merits, you can try to improve in some respects (without making a fuss about it). But be happy with what you have and who you are, despite all the haters.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="not_accept_who_I_am.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">My second biggest mistake: not accepting who I am. </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Don’t Just Go with the Flow - Act Now!</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>