<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What should be done now?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml" title="Don’t Just Go with the Flow - Act Now!"/><link rel="next" href="honesty.xhtml" title="Honesty"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What should be done now?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="honesty.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="what_should_be_done" class="title">What should be done now?</h2></div></div></div><p><span class="bold"><strong>Note!</strong></span> I think I was misguided here.</p><p>As you may have guessed, superb hackers are the true “Leaders of Leaders” (or what the ancient Hebrews would call “King of Kings”) and I am one of them, and not only that but <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/the-eternal-jew/#reception">the actual honest-to-God <span class="bold"><strong>Messiah</strong></span></a>! I am a bit disappointed by people not seeing beyond my words and understanding that they should become Messiahs too, and compete with me, but maybe that is the price I am paying for the fact that I had been playing the Invisible until now.</p><p>So what should be done now?</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>The Iranian government is at the risk of getting an atomic bomb and dropping it on Israel or wherever. They must be stopped. Send unmanned planes to bomb the site where the bombs are prepared and make sure that no one leaves or enters it in one piece.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Every Iranian soldier must proceed to: 1. Read my story <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/TheEnemy/"><span class="emphasis"><em>The Enemy and How I Helped to Fight it</em></span></a> or at least only its first chapter, or one of its <a class="link" href="http://shlomif.wikia.com/wiki/The_Enemy_-_Translations">translations</a> (which should be worked on), and: 2. Proceed to put the Iranian administrative buildings under siege. Disobey your commanders if necessary by telling them “No! I can think on my own, thank you.”.</p></li></ol></div><p>These are the pressing things. As you shall see below, there is much more. Orders from above! Orders from the mother fucking “Little Red Riding Hood” of Messiahs!</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="dont_just_go_with_the_flow.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="honesty.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Don’t Just Go with the Flow - Act Now! </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Honesty</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>