<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-GB"><head><title>Refuting Common Arguments against File Swapping</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="why_file_swapping_should_be_legal.xhtml" title="Why File Swapping should be Legal?"/><link rel="next" href="legal_uses.xhtml" title="Uses of File Swapping Services, which are More Legal"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Refuting Common Arguments against File Swapping</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="why_file_swapping_should_be_legal.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="legal_uses.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="refuting_common_arguments" class="title">Refuting Common Arguments against File Swapping</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml#refuting_common_arguments_domino_effect">The Domino Effect</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml#refuting_common_arguments_anarchy">Violating the Law against File Swapping will Cause Anarchy</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="refuting_common_arguments.xhtml#refuting_common_arguments_disobeying_traffic_laws">Sharing Files is like Disobeying Traffic Laws</a></span></li></ul></div><p>This section aims to refute some common arguments against file swapping.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="refuting_common_arguments_domino_effect" class="title">The Domino Effect</h3></div></div></div><p>Some people are using "the Domino Effect" as an argument that file swapping should be stopped. What they say is that if the profitability of the Music industry would be harmed, then it will cause an economical chain-reaction that may devastate the rest of the economy, because other dependent industries may be harmed.</p><p>There are two problems with this argument. The first is that there is no evidence that the profitability of the music industry is harmed due to file swapping, so there is little risk of this happening. The other is that assuming that would happen, it won't be a bad thing. That's because we essentially reduce the money that is transferred to a heavy taxer, and make the public, as a whole, richer. The public in turn, can spend this money on other merchandise, and make other industries as a whole more prosperous. This is similar to reducing income tax, while laying off some government workers.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="refuting_common_arguments_anarchy" class="title">Violating the Law against File Swapping will Cause Anarchy</h3></div></div></div><p>Some people say that if the law of a country prohibits sharing files, then this law must be obeyed, because otherwise there will be anarchy. However, one must understand that if certain laws are irrational, they cannot be practically expected to be obeyed.</p><p>I also personally don't see how assuming everyone share files online, the integrity of a country will be harmed. Sharing files does not involve killing people, stealing from them, nor does it involve force, threat of force or fraud.</p><p>20% of Americans enjoy file swapping, and yet the United States is functioning perfectly fine, and no anarchy is in sight.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="refuting_common_arguments_disobeying_traffic_laws" class="title">Sharing Files is like Disobeying Traffic Laws</h3></div></div></div><p>The comparison of sharing and downloading files to disobeying traffic laws seems to be quite prevalent. But naturally, copying files does not endanger lives, nor is it actually a crime. The worst thing that can happen if one shares works of art, is loss of profit. If you disobey traffic laws, you risk the lives of yourself and of other people. This makes it a difference of Heaven and Earth in this analogy.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="why_file_swapping_should_be_legal.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="legal_uses.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Why File Swapping should be Legal? </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Uses of File Swapping Services, which are More Legal</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>