<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>TODO: Rest of the stuff to add</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="running_an_election_campaign.xhtml" title="How to Run an Election Campaign"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">TODO: Rest of the stuff to add</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="running_an_election_campaign.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> </td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="to_do_rest_to_add" class="title">TODO: Rest of the stuff to add</h2></div></div></div><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Honesty/Enlightenment/etc. is a process.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Must always seek to be more honest and a better person.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>never rest on your laurels.</p></li></ul></div><p>Time &gt;&gt;&gt; Money.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Many NPOs/NGOs have a lot of money and too little volunteer time.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Michelle_Gellar">Link</a> saying that she now</p><p>has enough time to donate to causes which she considers worthy (despite</p><p>now being a mother).</p></li></ul></div><p>Hubris and Neophilia in moderation are important.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Amateurs/Hackers/Geeks better than the pros reloaded:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Christina Grimmie.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Feeling Good.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Sexual attractiveness → Competence (And vice-versa).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Honest vs. Dishonest advertising.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>See <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RRyniZG0Jo&amp;google_comment_id=z12eztertmvkerlxg04cfrrzczisvxa4gc4">Link</a> .</p></li></ul></div><p>Avicii - Wake me up.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>What is wisdom?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Cynicism (what Neo-Tech calls "mysticism").</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>our main enemy as a civilisation and as an individual.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Change brings change.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Sesame Street.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Crime&amp;Punishment → Ayn Rand → My screenplays &amp; stories.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The Tanakh vs. Shakespeare.</p></li></ul></div><p>How to run an election.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/human-hacking/human-hacking-field-guide-v2/homecoming_queen.html">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Snyder in <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ongoing-text.html">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Contrast with Hollywood Hogan in Suddenly Susan.</p></li></ul></div><p>Independence.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>asking/paying people for help.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>asking/paying people for advice.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>taking responsibility for your own actions.</p></li></ul></div><p>There are no coincidences.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Fiction is serious business.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Humour is also very serious.</p></li></ul></div><p>Pygmalion effect vs. Golem effect.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>→ Be the Pygmalion effect for anything.</p></li></ul></div><p>Must be united against our common enemy.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not Microsoft.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Not the MPAA, the RIAA or whoever.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Not the U.S. Government.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Not even entropy.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Cynicism!</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>What Neo-Tech calls "mysticism".</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Doubting people.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Finding faults in benevolent, heroic, people.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Red Tape.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Creating problems where none exist.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Models for Web revenue.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Flickr.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Bandcamp.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Collecting money for freeing a work into CC-by/X11L/PD/etc.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Non-intrusive ads.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Project Wonderful.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>More like a way to provide publicity for others, than to</p><p>earn a lot of cash.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>The Qoheleth/The Warrior King/The Hacker King/The best-of-the-best-of-the-best/The Saladin</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Who is John Galt?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Some Hacker Monarchs of the past:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Samantha Smith, Jim Henson, Walt Disney, Isaac Newton, Cardinal</p><p>Richelieu, Larry Wall, Jules Verne, Buffy, Capt. Jean-Luc Picard,</p><p>Saladin, George Washington/etc., Thomas Edison, Ayn Rand,</p><p>The Beatles.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Shlomi Fish (me)!</p></li></ul></div><p>Not [necessarily] the Roman Catholic pope.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Is not chosen - someone who wants it the most badly.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Summer Glau.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Why she's the Warrior Queen.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Suffered through a lot.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Wanted to be a ballerina.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Decided to pursue an acting career instead.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Moved to L.A. by herself.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Name cognate with Summerschool at the NSA / Sarah Michelle Gellar / Buffy Summers</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Milady de-Winter</p><p>/ etc.</p></li></ul></div><p>Also played under Joss Whedon.</p></li></ul></div><p>She wants it more badly than I do.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>No more "The Warrior Monarchs" - only individual "A Warrior monarch"s.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Terminated!</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>It's not a crisis - it's a learning opportunity.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Don't get mad - get even.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Chuck Norris</p></li></ul></div><p>Why confidence implies sloppiness.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Christina Grimmie.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Very humble and awkward starts.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Has Improved.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Feelin' Good - <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYX8sjIzjGw">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>Publish or Perish.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Please all→Please none.</p></li></ul></div><p>Correction: no force should be done against the Iranian bomb.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The Iranian bubble is "slowly" expanding.</p></li></ul></div><p>Time → Progress</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Stand-up Philosophy.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The Mel Brooks’ skit.</p></li></ul></div><p>"Back to Nature".</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Environmentalism.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Humans' advantage was always their technology.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/483261506537009153">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>«You are much more likely to find a good SO in a Science-Fiction convention (with a perfectly healthy mind and body) than you are at the middle of the wilderness.»</p></li></ul></div><p>Turning the Sahara desert into a lively forest using less than 1% at the</p><p>time of the U.S. Defence budget.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Feeding the world ten times over using the money Americans spend on</p><p>illegal drugs.</p></li></ul></div><p>Objectivism, Buffy, Perl.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>stagnation due to lack of external influences.</p></li></ul></div><p>Aristotle→Larry Wall : everything has a beginning, a middle and an end.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Why films and the good T.V. shows will eventually end.</p></li></ul></div><p>A 100% open hardware RISC CPU/GPU machine.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>DARPA ?</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>See <a class="link" href="http://zgp.org/pipermail/linux-elitists/2014-August/013764.html">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>Couples don't own each other, their love lives or their sex lives.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>it's OK to flirt.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://shlomif.wikia.com/wiki/No_Sexual_Behaviour_is_Wrong_or_Disrespectful">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>it's bad to be jealous and possessive.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>There's nothing ethically wrong with being a "slut"/"whore", a</p><p>professional prostitute, acting in a porn film, being polyamorous, etc.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/478025441983213569">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>«A #woman is a #lady even if she is or was a #porn actress or a</p><p>#prostitute . Treat her with #respect, be #honest to her - be a</p><p>#gentleman»</p></li></ul></div><p>As long as you are honest and sincere about it.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Deceit/lying are bad/immoral (unless naturally if done for</p><p>self-defence)</p></li></ul></div><p>All of those things may eventually be bad for your self-esteem.`</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/3PVhg1H6qqT">Link</a> :</p><p>««««««</p><p>A small anecdote from a story I got an idea for, which seems like the epitome</p><p>of blasphemy and political incorrectness, but still is pretty cool:</p><p>Three Celtic girls from the village where they provided the Greek with salt,</p><p>decide to travel to Damascus and beyond. They hitchhike a ride with some</p><p>Assyrian merchants who eventually disarm them and tell them at sword point that</p><p>they'll rape them.</p><p>The girls consult between themselves and decide that if they're going to have</p><p>sex, they might as well cooperate and enjoy it. So they have sex with the men</p><p>willingly. And after a few times the three men lose stamina while the girls</p><p>are not completely satisfied and cry for more! ☺</p><p>»»»»»»</p></li></ul></div><p>Miranda Kerr having a lot of sex with various willing men after</p><p>becoming separated from her husband, and bragging about it.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>"So she has become a slut? So cool!".</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ongoing-text.html#fixing_Buffy_s_friend_on_dates">Link</a></p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Intelligence/espionage:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not about keeping secrets away from people who really really want to</p><p>know.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Keeping the whole mass of data and information away from the general</p><p>populace.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Best policy: never deny or admit anything you think may be a problem.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://shlomif.livejournal.com/tag/soldier">Link</a></p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Vindictiveness/lack of mercy.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>"Solve the Middle East's problems in 20 minutes by dropping an atomic</p><p>bomb on Israel/Tehran".</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Don't wish for bad things to happen even for your worst enemies.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>the economic collapse.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Geeks taking over.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Penny from Big Bang Theory is a wonderful geek and hacker.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Amateurs better than the pros.</p></li></ul></div><p>Big money / Big business</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not a new phenomenon:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.reddit.com/r/Judaism/comments/294u2n/pro_and_against_big_business_and_big_money_in_the/">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>We probably won't get rid of it now or ever.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.paulgraham.com/inequality.html">Link</a> - Paul Graham’s Inequality and</p><p>Risk.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.paulgraham.com/gap.html">Link</a> - Mind the Gap</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>What "Fitness" really means - who are the fittest people?</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Why we should encourage people to be more able rather than expect</p><p>everyone to get everything they "need" or just "want".</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The Atlas Shrugged "From each according to their ability to each</p><p>according to their needs" thought experiment.</p></li></ul></div><p>Money as the tool to pay/quantify for the time of able people.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Different people’s time is worth differently.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Emma Watson vs. a completely obscure, beginning, actress, who</p><p>does not play well.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>EmWatson is more "able".</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Darwinian/Biological Fitness.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"Fit" started to mean a [sexually] attractive</p><p>member-of-the-approriate-sex (= MOTAS) in British slang.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not necessarily a very athletic one.</p></li></ul></div><p>Some level of the so-called "physical fitness" may be desirable for</p><p>good self-esteem, for confidence, and for extra attractiveness points.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not required.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Not a panacea.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>The Precious Jewellery</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>No female Jewelers.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Orthodox Jewish Jewellers who must no shake hands with women.</p></li></ul></div><p>An indication of waste rather than status.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>El-cheapo Jewellery looks nice, too.</p></li></ul></div><p><a class="link" href="http://slashdot.org/story/06/10/26/0040204/lab-created-diamonds-come-to-market/funny-comments">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Gold/silver/etc. have industrial utility.</p></li></ul></div><p>Red tape as the antithesis of hacking.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Accountants.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>clerks and bureaucrats.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Get rid of unnecessary regulation.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Use computers as our slaves.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Give you answers.</p></li></ul></div><p>Trust people.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>No cynicism/mysticism.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>"There's more than one way to do it."</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Fanatical classical libertarianism.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not about preventing state welfare, but about allowing people</p><p>to get rich.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Paul Graham about the Beatles’ “Tax Man” song.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Different countries/states/cities/localities may be better for different</p><p>people.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"He who changes place, changes his fortune."</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Old Hebrew Proverb.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Humpty Dumpty song.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Death is irreversible.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>As long as you're not dead or terminally ill, you still can improve.</p></li></ul></div><p>A limit to what even the largest and best resources can buy you.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Can't stop progress.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0076759/quotes">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The Ability to Destroy a Planet is insignificant next to the power of the force</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>More about Saladin.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Liberate Palestine one fortress by the other.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Antithesis for "For in tricks you should do your war"</p></li></ul></div><p>Show mercy, respect, forgiveness and chivalry.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Give the option to abuse one's power.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kingdom_of_Heaven_%28film%29">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>Fighting against <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_I_of_England">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Lost his horse - gave him two.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Got sick - gave him the care of his doctor.</p></li></ul></div><p><a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>Social networks:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Freenode/etc.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Reddit and its subreddits</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Google-Plus.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Twitter.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Facebook.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Problems with it.</p></li></ul></div><p>YouTube / imgur / GitHub / Deviantart / etc.</p></li></ul></div><p>Never rest on your laurels.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"No small roles - only small actors"</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Rosh Gadol vs. Rosh Qatan.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Joseph in Prison in the Jewish Bible</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://gilmoregirls.wikia.com/wiki/Lorelai_Gilmore">Link</a> who started as a</p><p>cleaner in the inn, and ended up managing it.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Quote from <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/Emma-Watson-applying-for-a-software-dev-job/">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"It's not a crisis - it's a learning opportunity."</p></li></ul></div><p>Why fiction is serious business.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Why humour is serious business.</p></li></ul></div><p>People saying about Facebook or Twitter or IRC or MMORPGs what they said</p><p>about television - or about Socrates.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>- Galileo vs. Newton</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Socrates vs. Plato and Aristotle</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Eminem's song about putting a contract on his wife.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>What you can't say - <a class="link" href="http://www.paulgraham.com/say.html">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The Internet as a shield.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Even if people don't appreciate you on one forum or sub-forum,</p><p>there are often others.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>From <a class="link" href="https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/i5Z8XdqTdwE">Link</a> :</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The proper way to run an election campaign:</p><p>««««««</p><p>I detailed the way I thought of to run an election campaign here: <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/human-hacking/human-hacking-field-guide-v2/homecoming_queen.html">Link</a> - on that section, the story’s Alpha Female, Eve “Erisa” Siegel, admits that winning the title of homecoming queen won’t make much of a difference to her, but that she still wants it, and instead of a smear or insult campaign, she supports and respects the other candidates.</p><p>Furthermore, you shouldn't give up if you lose ( #NeverGiveUp : Matsuoka Shuzo [松岡修造 ] - あきらめかけているあなた (NEVER GIVE UP!!) [English] ), and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentatonix">Link</a> released videos on YouTube before, while, and after their performance on the televised Sing-off competition (and I find them very nice). What I describe Principle Snyder doing in <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/">Link</a> is that after he has lost the election for mayor, he offered the actual winner to be his assistant and to help him as much as he can, and he eventually become mayor in the next election .</p><p>Hollywood depicted a worse way to run an election campaign with Hulk Hogan on Suddenly Susan where he maintains a false image instead of being himself - <a class="link" href="https://duckduckgo.com/?q=hollywood%20hogan%20suddenly%20susan">Link</a> (these were my favourite two episodes of that show). And this whole ordeal materialised with <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arnold_schwarzenegger">Link</a> 's “Girly Men” campaign for the Californian governor elections, but really could have been avoided.</p><p>»»»»»»</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"Wine, Women, and Song".</p><p>There are three important things in life for one’s self-esteem:</p><p>1. Good food and drinks ("Wine") - see <a class="link" href="http://judaism.stackexchange.com/questions/27195/maimonides-advice-about-dieting">Link</a></p><p>2. Good company of any sex ("Women").</p><p>3. Clean, creative, fun, however unprofessional and low quality. ("Song"): Christina Grimmie - "Feelin' Good"</p><p>If you're a wage slave, who does not eat well, does not enjoy the company of</p><p>his family or friends, and does not have fun, then not only are you unhappy,</p><p>but you are really unproductive and lazy:</p><p><a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#laziness_vs_productivity">Link</a></p><p>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Classical music:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>museum pieces.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>See <a class="link" href="http://esr.ibiblio.org/?p=4229">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/BKeGPY7cCVT">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Remakes / covers / fanfiction.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Lessig’s Remix book.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>crossovers / mash-ups.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/AlexGMusic8/status/474284103349456896">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>«I just genuinely don't understand the need for complete and utter 100%</p><p>nakedness in the women's locker room at the gym. Ahhhhhh #help»</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>What my friend noted about him being a "heterophobe" who cannot stand</p><p>seeing other men naked.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>That only women will get it.</p></li></ul></div><p>Noting that people should still be free to experience (or produce)</p><p>porn or soft porn or erotica or whatever in the privacy of their</p><p>own home.</p></li></ul></div><p><a class="link" href="http://www.reddit.com/r/writing/comments/2api0a/how_to_write_essays_in_2014_stylewise_and/">Link</a></p><p>««««««</p><p>This essay/article which someone linked to on Freenode's ##programming is a prime example of how you should write essays in this day and age:</p><p><a class="link" href="http://brikis98.blogspot.in/2014/05/dont-learn-to-code-learn-to-think.html">Link</a></p><p>Mainly it has:</p><p>1. Many images that are often relevant.</p><p>2. Short paragraphs.</p><p>3. Easily skimable text.</p><p>4. Many text embellishments such as bullets, itemised lists, bold, etc.</p><p>This is as opposed to a text with long paragraphs/etc.</p><p>This is not a new trend. Russians pride themselves on having the best 19th century and 20th century novelists, but even <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crime_and_Punishment">Link</a> is much less usable and popular than those of French, British and American novelists: <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty_Thousand_Leagues_Under_the_Sea">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Three_Musketeers">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adventures_of_Tom_Sawyer">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Little_Women">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jane_Eyre">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Treasure_Island">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hobbit">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice%27s_Adventures_in_Wonderland">Link</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Railway_Children">Link</a> - all novels that aged extremely well.</p><p>Even a large part of the Jewish Bible / Tanakh / Old Testament is extremely succinct and to the point (not sure about the so-called New Testament).</p><p>Sesame Street was accused of encouraging illiteracy and trying to sugar-coat learning, and other stuff like that, but it improved the standard for television, cinema and the written word considerably.</p><p>Similar criticisms had been voiced about Socrates in ancient Greece, and now people say similar things about Twitter, Facebook or <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Little_Pony:_Friendship_Is_Magic">Link</a> (♥!).</p><p>I however, am pretty sure that the young generation of today which receives many "bad" influences from such social media mediums and popular culture franchises, will grow and mature nicely enough. And as sexualised or violent My Little Pony, the Big Bang Theory or Game of Thrones or whatever are, they've got nothing on the Old Testament... ☺</p><p>»»»»»»</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Temporal logic:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>things change.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>people change.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>people's opinions change.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>people's capabilities/skills/abilities change.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Societies change.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The world changes.</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Design/choose your own clothes.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>T-shirts/etc. with a:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>inscription</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>logo or photo</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>URL and/or Twitter Account.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Hash-tag.</p></li></ul></div><p>Accessories/etc.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>A dog.</p></li></ul></div><p>Play to lose:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=sharp-english-play-to-lose">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"Every great truth once started as a blasphemy".</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=lessig-about-rewarding-the-critics">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>"What a good day it was to die."</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>More about arrogance, being careful vs. careless, etc:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/EdHs8tEKYmk">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p>Gay marriage.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Not a serious issue.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Marriage should not be considered different in the bylaws vs. a couple</p><p>living together and possibly having children.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Most children in Denmark being born outside marriage.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Still a strong taboo against it in Israel</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>Open/Free immigration.</p></li></ul></div><p>"Terrorist" organisations / Organised crime organisations / Criminals / etc.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>A lot of them are likely not really criminals</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>The Neo-Tech constitution vs. imaginary crimes.</p></li></ul></div><p>Also have a lot of overhead.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/DevelopmentAbstraction.html">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>««««</p><p>It is not a coincidence that the Roman army had a ratio of four</p><p>servants for every soldier. This was not decadence. Modern armies</p><p>probably run 7:1. (Here's something Pradeep Singh taught me</p><p>today: if only 20% of your staff is programmers, and you can save</p><p>50% on salary by outsourcing programmers to India, well, how much</p><p>of a competitive advantage are you really going to get out of</p><p>that 10% savings?)</p><p>»»»»</p></li></ul></div><p>Abolishing drafts and making militaries voluntary</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/may/30/israel-journalist-uri-blau-military-secret">Link</a></p></li></ul></div><p><a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JkviZGRp6h0">Link</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Kid Rock - Let's Ride - Lyrics Video</p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div><p>"The words of the wise men are said in comfort."</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://biblehub.com/text/proverbs/16-21.htm">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://biblehub.com/text/ecclesiastes/9-17.htm">Link</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Set an example rather than preach or use scare tactics.</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p>Show the positive side rather than be only negative.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Proactive hacking.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.advogato.org/article/1056.html">Link</a></p></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></li></ul></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="running_an_election_campaign.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> </td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">How to Run an Election Campaign </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> </td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>