<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>How do I Define Myself?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="change_the_world.xhtml" title="I will Change the World"/><link rel="next" href="ls_ms_rs_dwi.xhtml" title="LS-MS-RS-DWI!"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">How do I Define Myself?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="change_the_world.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ls_ms_rs_dwi.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="define_myself" class="title">How do I Define Myself?</h2></div></div></div><p>What would I say if you ask me “How do you define myself?”. As a Jew? As an Israeli? As an Objectivist? As a Liberal? I am all of these, but that’s not how I define myself. In fact, I define myself simply as “Shlomi Fish”.</p><p>For once, I believe that defining myself as any property of me, does not do justice to myself. I am devaluating myself this way. Furthermore, and equally as importantly, when malicious people try to convince me or other people of doing something, they would say “As a Jew, it is your responsibility to do X”, “Every self-respecting Israeli should do Y”. They will hardly ever say “as Shlomi Fish, you need to do X and Y”.</p><p>The first thing a religion or a doctrine tries to take away from you is your personal identity. They want you to feel as if it’s more important to define yourself as a member of their collective, than as the individual that is yourself. No one should fall into this trap.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="change_the_world.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="ls_ms_rs_dwi.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">I will Change the World </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> LS-MS-RS-DWI!</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>