<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Eternal Jew</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="next" href="essence_of_judaism.xhtml" title="The Essence of Judaism"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Eternal Jew</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="essence_of_judaism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section xml:lang="en" class="article"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 id="index" class="title">The Eternal Jew</h1></div><div><div class="authorgroup"><div class="author"><h2 class="author"><span class="firstname">Shlomi</span> <span class="surname">Fish</span></h2><div class="affiliation"><div class="address"><p><br/>                        <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:shlomif@shlomifish.org">shlomif@shlomifish.org</a>&gt;</code><br/>                        <code class="uri"><a class="uri" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish’s Homepage</a></code><br/>                    </p></div></div></div></div></div><div><p class="copyright">Copyright © 2004 Shlomi Fish</p></div><div><div id="main_legal_notice" class="legalnotice"><p>This document is copyrighted by Shlomi Fish under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons Attribution License version 2.0</a> (or at your option a greater version).</p></div></div><div><div class="revhistory"><table><tr><th colspan="3"><strong>Revision History</strong></th></tr><tr><td>Revision 4902</td><td>2011-06-05</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Change ASCII double quotes and single quotes to Unicode.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 6067</td><td>2005-10-08</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed some broken links.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1407</td><td>2005-10-08</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed some typos, trailing whitespace, linked to Objectivism, and changed “Mandrake Linux” to “Mandriva Linux”.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 962</td><td>2004-02-08</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added more to the “Warrior Philosopher”: charging for performances, and the competing prime minister.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 919</td><td>2004-01-19</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Finished the entire document. Version as sent to my friends.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 889</td><td>2004-01-06</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Finished the introduction, the essence of Judaism, and the Value of Eternity.</td></tr></table></div></div></div><hr/></div><div class="toc"><div class="toc-title">Table of Contents</div><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#introduction">Introduction</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="essence_of_judaism.xhtml">The Essence of Judaism</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="value_of_eternity.xhtml">The Value of Eternity</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="godless_man.xhtml">The Godless Man</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="godless_man.xhtml#god_for_control">Why the God Concept can be used to Control</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="godless_man.xhtml#godless_man_independet_thinker">The Godless Man as an Independent Thinker</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="most_powerful_man.xhtml">Who is the most Powerful Man on Earth?</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="change_the_world.xhtml">I will Change the World</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="change_the_world.xhtml#i_am_the_messiah">I am the Messiah</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="define_myself.xhtml">How do I Define Myself?</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ls_ms_rs_dwi.xhtml">LS-MS-RS-DWI!</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="warrior_philosopher.xhtml">The Warrior Philosopher</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="reflecting_vs_leading.xhtml">Reflecting Society vs. Leading it</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="freedom.xhtml">The Value of Freedom</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="open_source.xhtml">Open Source and what it Means to me</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="finale.xhtml">Finale</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="introduction" class="title">Introduction</h2></div></div></div><p>In his famous book <span class="emphasis"><em>Mein Kampf</em></span> Adolf Hitler has given his vision of “The Eternal Jew” - a people that managed to survive throughout the ages, unharmed, maintaining its own identity, in countries out of his own. He maintained that this “Eternal Jew” was destroying civilization and had to be eradicated, so the more competent “Aryan Race” would be able to flourish.</p><p>Well, Mr. Hitler, your vision has materialized: I have assumed the form of this Eternal Jew, and promise you that I will continue to haunt you and your likes forever. I, Shlomi Fish as one unified and eternal Jewish mind, body and soul.</p><p>Yes, I plan on living forever. And yes, I’m a Jew. But “The Eternal Jew” is much more than that. The Eternal Jew is aimed at haunting “gentiles” - which are not necessarily Jews or non-Jews in the traditional sense. What they are is people who have disrespect for the basic values associated with modern Judaism. And I will indeed haunt them and if I have my way, eradicate all of the “gentility” off the planet.</p><p>One final note: another famous Jewish myth similar to the Eternal Jew is “The Wandering Jew”. The Wandering Jew is also noble, but distinct from the Eternal Jew. This essay will focus solely on “The Eternal Jew”.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="essence_of_judaism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> The Essence of Judaism</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>