<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Who is the most Powerful Man on Earth?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="godless_man.xhtml" title="The Godless Man"/><link rel="next" href="change_the_world.xhtml" title="I will Change the World"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Who is the most Powerful Man on Earth?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="godless_man.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="change_the_world.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="most_powerful_man" class="title">Who is the most Powerful Man on Earth?</h2></div></div></div><p>Who is the most powerful man on Earth? Take some time to think of it before you decide on the final answer. When you are ready - read on.</p><p>Now, I’ll tell you what I would answer if someone asked me the question “Who is the most powerful man on Earth?”. I would tell them that “I am”.</p><p>The statement “I am the most powerful man on Earth” is a statement of intent, rather than stating a fact. Naturally, there are some things other people can do that I cannot do, at least not yet. But it is irrelevant to the fact that I have the greatest influence on my future, and if I so wish, on the future of the world at large.</p><p>Using this recognition, I can let no force, no matter how seemingly powerful stop me. Such a force cannot do this even if it greatly wanted to. If all people thought so, and never considered a single person their superior, the world would be a much better place.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="godless_man.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="change_the_world.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">The Godless Man </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> I will Change the World</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>