<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Perfect IT Workplace</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="next" href="the-elements.xhtml" title="The Elements of a Perfect Workplace"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="center warning"><p><b>Note:</b> This document is work-in-progress. Please don’t publish it on news sites, or otherwise link to it in public without the author’s permission. Private linking is acceptable.</p></div><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Perfect IT Workplace</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="the-elements.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section xml:lang="en" class="article"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 id="index" class="title">The Perfect IT Workplace</h1></div><div><div class="authorgroup"><div class="author"><h2 class="author"><span class="firstname">Shlomi</span> <span class="surname">Fish</span></h2><div class="affiliation"><div class="address"><p><br/>                        <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:shlomif@shlomifish.org">shlomif@shlomifish.org</a>&gt;</code><br/>                        <code class="uri"><a class="uri" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish’s Homepage</a></code><br/>                    </p></div></div></div></div></div><div><p class="copyright">Copyright © 2008 Shlomi Fish</p></div><div><div id="main_legal_notice" class="legalnotice"><p>This work is licensed under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/">Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License</a> (or at your option any greater version of it).</p></div></div><div><div class="revhistory"><table><tr><th colspan="3"><strong>Revision History</strong></th></tr><tr><td>Revision 1841</td><td>30 April 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Forked the template from a previous work and began working on it.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 5762</td><td>02 July 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">The first revision as publicised on Reddit.com, by pkrumins.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 5977</td><td>26 July 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Forked the revision 1 version and started working on revision 2. Fixed many typos. Added the motivation for automated tests. Added more text to the design section.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 6036</td><td>02 August 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Started adding the essential tools section with more information, instead of just the knowledge in the Ether.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 6048</td><td>04 August 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the “Building, Configuration and Packaging” section.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 6201</td><td>14 November 2008</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the Maturity, Mind-share and Distance from the Mainstream sub-section to “Choosing a Technology”.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2319 (svn)</td><td>27 February 2009</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added missing id attributes to footnotes, so they won’t be randomly generated.</td></tr></table></div></div></div><hr/></div><div class="toc"><div class="toc-title">Table of Contents</div><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#introduction">Introduction</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#intro-sources">Sources from Which the Advice was Taken</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml">The Elements of a Perfect Workplace</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#hire-the-best-developers">Hire the Best Developers</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#openness">Openness</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#great-working-conditions">Great Working Conditions</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--kitchen">Kitchen</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--comfortable-offices">Comfortable Offices</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--best-tools">The Best Tools That Money Can Buy</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--sane-working-hours">Sane Working Hours</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--location">Location, Location, Location</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--paid-vacation">A Lot of Paid Vacation</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--strict-firewalls">Avoid Over-Strict Firewalls</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--salary">About the Salary</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#conditions--conclusion">Conditions: Conclusion</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#pair-programming">Pair Programming</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#give-employees-freedom">Give Your Employees the Freedom to Do What They Want</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#job-ads">Phrase Your Job Ads in a Unique and Smart Way</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#read-software-management-material">Read a Lot of Software Management Material</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#listen-to-your-devs">Listen to Your Developers</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#software-engineering">Software Engineering Best Practices</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#functional-specs">Functional Specs</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#automated-tests">Automated Tests</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#design-and-planning">Design and Planning</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#refactoring">Refactoring</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#soft-eng-methods-to-avoid">Software Engineering Methods to Avoid</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#maintaining-two-codebases">Maintaining Two Codebases</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#specialisation">Don’t Over-Specialise</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#listen-to-your-customers">Listen to Your Customers or Users</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#great-poets-steal">“Good Poets Borrow. Great Poets Steal.”</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#study-psychology">Study Psychology</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#success-and-failure-stories">Read Success and Failure Stories</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#essential-software">Essential Organisational Software to Have</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#essential-software--wiki">A Wiki to Prevent the “Knowledge in the Ether” Anti-Pattern</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#essential-software--bug-tracker">A Bug-Tracker</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#essential-software--vcs">Version Control Software</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#essential-software--build-and-config">Building, Configuration and Packaging</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#which-technology">Choose Your Technology Carefully</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-foss-and-portability">Is it Open-source and/or Portable?</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-expect-unexpected">Expect some Unexpected Problems</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-power">The Technology’s Power</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-habits">Habits</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-reliability-and-reputation">Reliability and Reputation</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-maturity-and-mindshare">Maturity, Mindshare and Distance from the Mainstream</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="the-elements.xhtml#tech-case-study">Case Study</a></span></li></ul></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="excellent-customer-support.xhtml">Provide an Excellent Customer Support</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="weekly-reports.xhtml">Weekly Reports and Other Ways to Keep Track of Your Employees</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="conclusion.xhtml">Conclusion</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="thanks.xhtml">Thanks</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="introduction" class="title">Introduction</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#intro-sources">Sources from Which the Advice was Taken</a></span></li></ul></div><p>I originally wrote <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/software-management/end-of-it-slavery/">“The End of Info-Tech Slavery”</a> a few years ago, shortly after I was fired from a job I liked and for which I worked about three months. Some people who commented on the article found it of good value. However many people who commented on it have voiced some criticism.</p><p>One of the comments I received said that I kept giving bad examples for conditions I disliked from previous workplaces, instead of positive elements I would have liked to see or have seen. As much as I like liquidating negatives, I agree that I should also mention some good things that a workplace needs to adopt.</p><p>Another commenter told me in private, that he felt that the “End of IT Slavery” and other essays of mine reflected the fact that I had a “primadonna attitude” instead of a more positive “team-player” attitude. While this may be deduced from my “The End of IT Slavery”, I found that as a tech worker, I tended to just get my job done as I told, try to be as productive as I can be, try to adjust to the surroundings, and even be a little <a class="link" href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/items/2004/12/06.html">of what Israelis call “rosh qatan” (= “small-head”)</a></p><p>I can see why people would think so after reading the “End of IT Slavery”. However, my intention in the article was to guide employers (and employees) as to how to best treat their employees, and give them good conditions, so they’ll be happier and more productive. Going over the original article, I can see that I indeed had a very ranting tone, and had given bad examples for what not to do, exclusively.</p><p>So this time, I’m going to try again and hopefully be more successful. This article aims to cover the elements that <a class="link" href="http://www.paulgraham.com/gh.html">great programmers</a> would love to see in a perfect workplace. By implementing as many of them as possible, or at least giving them a serious thought, you can make such potential employees want to work for you, love to work for you, want to stay, and be happy as long as they are working for you. Furthermore, you will know better than to irrationally fire perfectly good employees.</p><p>I’m not trying to be original in this article, because an essayist (or any kind of artist) does not get credit for coming up with perfectly original concepts or ideas (as <a class="link" href="the-elements.xhtml#great-poets-steal" title="“Good Poets Borrow. Great Poets Steal.”">I note later</a> in a different context). What I’m trying to do is summarise everything I’ve learned, judged and concluded, so far, based on the many sources I’ve read. I may be just a dwarf standing on the shoulders of giant, but hopefully I’ll still be able to see farther than most.</p><p>There is a lot of material on good software management out there, and not everybody took the time to read all the important one. This material can sometimes be contradictory, and sometimes false. Nevertheless, I decided to integrate it here into what I’ve perceived and concluded to be the best choices.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="intro-sources" class="title">Sources from Which the Advice was Taken</h3></div></div></div><p>This is a non-exhaustive list of major sources of influence.</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/esr/">Eric S. Raymond’s Homepage</a> and especially his <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/">the <span class="emphasis"><em>Cathedral and the Bazaar</em></span> series</a> and his <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html">“How to become a Hacker”</a> document.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The <a class="link" href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/">wonderful <span class="emphasis"><em>Joel on Software</em></span> site</a> by Joel Spolsky.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.paulgraham.com/">Paul Graham’s essays</a> - tend to be interesting, but often suffering from some problems.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.extremeprogramming.org/">Extreme Programming</a> - seems a bit too rigorous, but still has many good ideas.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Damian Conway’s excellent book <a class="link" href="http://www.oreilly.com/catalog/perlbp/">Perl Best Practices</a></p></li></ol></div></section></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="the-elements.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> The Elements of a Perfect Workplace</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>