<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Recommendations for the Future</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="accomplishments.xhtml" title="Accomplishments"/><link rel="next" href="licence.xhtml" title="Licence"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Recommendations for the Future</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="accomplishments.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="licence.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="recommendations_for_the_future" class="title">Recommendations for the Future</h2></div></div></div><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Linux Kernel Development:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="a"><li class="listitem"><p>1. Linus should quit - at least temporarily. (see my <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/open-source/linus-torvalds-bus-factor/">“The Linus Torvalds Bus Factor”</a> for which I got completely blocked from the vger.kernel.org E-mail domain and which I now understand was the “truth” and an elephant in the room)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>There should be more than one committer (same).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://www.itworld.com/software/365342/linus-torvalds-too-abusive-linux-kernel-mailing-list">The girl who complained on LKML</a> that they should be more tactful and friendly is right. Geeks can be more tactful and friendly without becoming less competent (false dichotomy).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Linus accused her of being “passive-aggressive” (whatever that means) but he was wrong.</p></li></ol></div></li><li class="listitem"><p>Greenpeace: proactive technological (tangible+mental) effort instead of anti-technology: 1. Start planting trees. 2. Lobby for more enforestation. 3. Encourage consuming less. 4. Work on industrialisation and modernisation of third-party nations: richer people-&gt;less children.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Realise that destruction solves nothing - “I can solve the Middle East’s problems in 20 minutes - by dropping a nuclear bomb on Israel.” ; “Nuke Tehran” - wrong! You're killing innocent people in both cases.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>If you banned someone from an IRC forum or felt offended, you should unban him and encourage people to offend you so you will grow intellectually.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>It seems that wikis such as <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ikiwiki">ikiwiki</a> which use <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_revision_control">Distributed Version Control Systems</a> (DVCSes) for storage, are in general preferable to MediaWiki and other SQL-based wikis and content management systems (CMSes), due to better reliability, and the ability to backup all data. I suggest Wikia to offer an option to use ikiwiki.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Employ <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">Saladin’s method</a> to fight violent and destructive dissidents.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>People should support the <a class="link" href="http://zgp.org/pipermail/linux-elitists/2014-August/013765.html">lowRISC project</a> to create a 100% open hardware RISC architecture.</p></li></ol></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="accomplishments.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="licence.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Accomplishments </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Licence</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>