<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Rough Timeline of the #SummerNSA Effort</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="index.xhtml" title="A #SummerNSA’s Reading"/><link rel="next" href="accomplishments.xhtml" title="Accomplishments"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Rough Timeline of the #SummerNSA Effort</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="accomplishments.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="timline" class="title">Rough Timeline of the #SummerNSA Effort</h2></div></div></div><p>The timeline of the <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/SummerNSA/">#SummerNSA effort</a> is roughly:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>In 1998, my friend Omer Zak and I discussed the shortage of IT workers as of then on E-mail and <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=smg-next-film">I noted:</a></p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Shlomi Fish to Omer Zak: “Even the NSA doesn’t have enough programmers. But it is not likely that they will have more, and that’s because Summerschool at the NSA may might as well be the name of Sarah Michelle Gellar’s next movie.”</p><p>Omer Zak to Shlomi Fish: “And as opposed to I Know What You Did Last Summer, it is going to be scary.”</p></blockquote></div><p>An adversary effect of this privately exchanged meme was throwing me into a mania, during which I did a lot of positively irrational things, but which inspired me ever since.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Many years later, I ended up <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=kilmo-about-the-NSA">discussing this with my friend “Kilmo”</a> over instant messaging, yielding further memes.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/NSA/">NSA Facts page</a> was set up around <a class="link" href="http://shlomif-tech.livejournal.com/66252.html">6 February 2013</a>, largely inspired by the Chuck Norris factoids and similar factoids that I collected.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>On 12 March 2013 I published an <a class="link" href="http://www.advogato.org/article/1071.html">open letter</a> to Sarah Michelle Gellar about the production of a documentary film title “Summerschool at the NSA”.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Shortly afterwards on 6 April 2013, I made <a class="link" href="http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2013/Apr/54">an announcement</a> to the Full Disclosure mailing list about the fictional screenplay <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">“Summerschool at the NSA”</a>. It stars fictionalised versions of Sarah Michelle Gellar, her colleague - and in some respects protégée - <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">Summer Glau</a>, and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Keith_B._Alexander">General Keith B. Alexander</a>, who was the director of the NSA at the time.</p><p>After finishing the screenplay, it was publicised in several places (including /r/xkcd and /r/SummerGlau on reddit), and was generally well received.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>I initially expected Summer Glau to become the next Alpha Female, but on 1 June 2013 I wrote <a class="link" href="http://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/gyrcAfAASev">a post</a> saying she instead will become the next “<span class="bold"><strong>The Hacker Monarch</strong></span>”/Warrior monarch - a role which was held previously by: <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">Saladin</a>, Leonardo da-Vinci, Isaac Newton, Cardinal Richelieu, George Washington, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandre_Dumas">Alexandre Dumas Pere</a>, Jules Verne, Walt Disney, <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayn_Rand">Ayn Rand</a>, The Beatles, Jim Henson, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Wall">Larry Wall</a>, the fictional Capt. Jean-Luc Picard from <a class="link" href="http://en.memory-alpha.org/wiki/Star_Trek:_The_Next_Generation"><span class="emphasis"><em>Star Trek: The Next Generation</em></span></a>, the fictional <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffy_Summers">Buffy Summers</a> from the show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", and Shlomi Fish (= me).</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>On 4 July 2014, I wrote and published an essay titled <a class="link" href="https://plus.google.com/+ShlomiFish/posts/i5Z8XdqTdwE">“Summer Glau for Government”</a> where: “</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Abstract: This document will provide the motivation and a rough plan for Summer Glau ( <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Summer_Glau">Wikipedia Entry</a>, <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">page highlighting her significance</a> ) and/or other extremely powerful and influential, but possibly still relatively obscure, men and women, of any age, to become either the <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/President_of_the_United_States">President of the United States</a> , or as ambassadors of good will and "Shalom"/"Salaam" (= "completeness" / "well-being" / "peace" / "harmony" / "serenity" / "welfare" / "safety" ; see <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shalom">the Wikipedia entry</a> ).</p></blockquote></div></li><li class="listitem"><p>On 31 August 2014, I posted a <a class="link" href="http://shlomifish.livejournal.com/3001.html">"Call for Action [CfA]"</a> for finishing off the open content / Web 2.0 revolution revealing my intentions for the production of a film about it and for passing the baton of the Hacker King to Summer Glau. I didn't get a reply from anyone involved.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>An <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/me/rindolf/#update_long_live_us_hacker_monarchs">update</a> to my page about my “Rindolf” nickname read in 7 September 2014:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>(<span class="bold"><strong>2014-Sep-07</strong></span>) Following the <a class="link" href="http://unarmed.shlomifish.org/3001.html">call for action</a> for “Finishing Off The Open Content / Web 2.0 Revolution (#SummerNSA)”, I have become tired of remaining <span class="bold"><strong>The</strong></span> Hacker monarch. As a result, I mentally decided to quit prematurely and let the whole world go to hell. This was done per advice of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Wall">Larry Wall</a>, who was the wonderful The Hacker King of the Open Source/Usenet revolution (~1984-1997), and quite The Invisible as well (by choice).</p><p>After feeling vindictive and resentful for a while (which I knew by experience was a transitional feeling and that I should not act upon), I realised something. That was that Summer Glau, being the legendary Bajoran profile, “The Sexiest Terminator Ever”, just terminated the whole obsession of me and other people with a small group being “<span class="bold"><strong>The</strong></span> Hacker Monarch” and instead there are now multiple potential “Hacker Monarchs”. And to that I am grateful to her.</p><p>(FFFFUUUU <a class="link" href="http://mlp.wikia.com/wiki/Rainbow_Dash">Rainbow Dash</a> -like people, who always think there should be one and only winner in a competition.)</p><p>Therefore, I plan on remaining <span class="bold"><strong>an</strong></span> awesome hacker monarch for the foreseeable future, and will be joined by Ms. Glau and by other people who are willing to play that role. Perhaps future historians will designate some people in particular as being that in the present, but such global <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superlative">superlatives</a> probably ought to die for now.</p><p>(Also see how previously the fictional Selina Mandrake, being The Dispeller <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Selina-Mandrake/ongoing-text.html#from-dispeller-to-selina">dispelled the whole ordeal with assigning profiles</a>.)</p><p>I still plan on passing that d10 die to Summer in person with much fanfare, because it's now her property. And I am still planning on becoming a successful, rich, and famous, writer/entertainer/philosopher and screenwriter. Remember the name: Shlomi “Rindolf” Fish!</p></blockquote></div></li><li class="listitem"><p>On 14 September 2014, I published an announcement (<a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/511107391673204736">Twitter</a> ; <a class="link" href="http://github.com/shlomif/shlomif-diary-drafts-and-docs/blob/master/do-you-want-to-be-a-hacker-monarch.md">GitHub</a> ; <a class="link" href="https://www.facebook.com/shlomi.fish/posts/10152277713431981">Facebook</a>) for “Do you want to become a hacker monarch? We need you.”</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>"Who the hell are the Qohelethes?" or in plainer English "Who are the hacker monarchs of the world?"</p><p>What is a Hacker Monarch? A Hacker Monarch is also known as a “Warrior King/Queen/Monarch” / The best-of-the-best-of-the-best / A Saladin / A Qoheleth / A John Galt / A King Messiah / A master vampire / etc. To quote what Quark from the Star Trek franchise said about the Grand Nagus, he/she: «has the greatest business mind… always thinking ten, sometimes twenty steps ahead of everyone else.» and the kind of person who has the same ideas as everyone else only five years earlier and thus is named a lunatic.</p><p>Up to a few days ago, it was believed that only a selected group of few people can be Hacker monarchs for a time. My tentative list of the known *The* Hacker monarchs is, since Saladin who was the first exemplar The Hacker Monarch:</p><p>Saladin, Leonardo da-Vinci, Isaac Newton, Cardinal Richelieu, George Washington, Alexandre Dumas Pere, Jules Verne, Walt Disney, Ayn Rand, The Beatles, Jim Henson, Samantha Smith, Larry Wall, the fictional Capt. Jean-Luc Picard from "Star Trek: TNG", the fictional Buffy Summers from the show "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", Shlomi Fish (= me), and finally - Summer Glau ( http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/ )</p><p>What happened with Summer Glau? As you know, she is a terminator, and as terminators go she “terminated” the whole obsession with the “The” in **The** Hacker Monarch and opened the role of **A** Hacker monarch up for grabs.</p></blockquote></div></li></ol></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="accomplishments.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">A #SummerNSA’s Reading </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Accomplishments</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>