<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>“She must be a fine cat.”</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="god_works.xhtml" title="God Works in Mysterious Ways"/><link rel="next" href="search_of_lost_time.xhtml" title="I can write my own replacement for ‘In Search of Lost Time’"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">“She must be a fine cat.”</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="god_works.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="search_of_lost_time.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="fine_cat" class="title">“She must be a fine cat.”</h2></div></div></div><pre class="programlisting">

        &lt;jennray&gt;  OK, so I invited my friend over here (the one we ended
                   up transforming, per perlygatekeeper’s advice) and she
                   should be here soon.
        &lt;blarned&gt;  She must be a fine cat.
              --&gt;  erisa has joined #perl
        &lt;jennray&gt;  erisa: hi! Good timing, I just told the channel
                   about your arrival.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  jennray: Jennifer: ♥! I’ll see if I like the company here.
                *  blarned paws at erisa
        &lt;rindolf&gt;  Hi erisa! Meet blarned - he’s our resident cat. Kudos
                   for the Unicode, too.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  blarned: meow!
          &lt;erisa&gt;  rindolf: UTF-Love!
        &lt;rindolf&gt;  erisa: and ISO-Hate-Hate-Five-Nine-*.
&lt;perlygatekeeper&gt;  erisa: so I understand your transformation was
                   successful?
          &lt;erisa&gt;  perlygatekeeper: oh yes! I’m a completely different
                   person now.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  Hold on.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  http://eve-siegel.eu.org/temp-images/eve-before.jpg vs.
                   http://eve-siegel.eu.org/temp-images/eve-after.jpg .
          &lt;erisa&gt;  And that’s just the way I look.
                *  blarned claws the ‘before’ and nuzzles the ‘after’.
&lt;perlygatekeeper&gt;  erisa: yes, they are a difference of earth and heaven.
        &lt;rindolf&gt;  erisa: awesome. I understand you are jennray’s
                   classmate?
          &lt;erisa&gt;  rindolf: yes, we’re also good friends. And I will
                   continue to torment her during our (and our boyfriends’)
                   Bachelor’s in university.
        &lt;rindolf&gt;  erisa: sounds like a plan.
        &lt;jennray&gt;  erisa was initially reluctant to join IRC because she
                   thought it was a place for chronic time wasters and
                   “script-kiddies”.
        &lt;blarned&gt;  Perl cats like to waste time, but we are at a constant
                   war with those pesky script-kiddie critters.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  I’ll join that Perl Cats’ herd (“clowder”?). Meow!
        &lt;rindolf&gt;  erisa: by the way, how did you reach that conclusion about
                   IRC?
          &lt;erisa&gt;  rindolf: hmmm… let me think.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  Well, I used to enjoy chatting on IRC a bit before I became
                   a rebel, but then I recall an E-mail exchange with someone
                   whom I believed told me that the reason he was such a great
                   hacker was because he lacked any social life.
        &lt;jennray&gt;  A “nerd” so-to-speak?
          &lt;erisa&gt;  Yes, exactly.
          &lt;erisa&gt;  Oh my God…

</pre><p>At which point, I received a phone call. It was Eve and she was crying.</p><p>“Jennifer, I think I’ve realised why I became the punk that I was… it was all because of that E-mail exchange. I think… I think… I was trying to emulate a nerd, because I cared a lot about hacking.”</p><p>“Oh, Eve!” I told her. “Maybe I should come to your house?”</p><p>There was a pause. “Well, OK… if it’s not much trouble.”</p><p>“It’s not, really. You’re my friend after all.” I told her.</p><p>I went to her house, and when I came, she was still very excited. She told me about her past, how she was not happy with what she was, and how non-sensical her past philosophy appeared to her then. She returned to her happy, joyful, state after a while and we returned to the IRC conversation taking turns to type things at the computer. I showed her some of my other favourite channels, and she ended up making new IRC friends. Eventually, Eve concluded by saying: “Wow! Wasting time can be a lot of fun. I should do it more often, I think”.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="god_works.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="search_of_lost_time.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">God Works in Mysterious Ways </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> I can write my own replacement for ‘In Search of Lost Time’</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>