<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What Makes Software High-Quality?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="next" href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml" title="Parameters of Quality"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What Makes Software High-Quality?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section xml:lang="en" class="article"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 id="index" class="title">What Makes Software High-Quality?</h1></div><div><div class="authorgroup"><div class="author"><h2 class="author"><span class="firstname">Shlomi</span> <span class="surname">Fish</span></h2><div class="affiliation"><div class="address"><p><br/>                        <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:shlomif@shlomifish.org">shlomif@shlomifish.org</a>&gt;</code><br/>                        <code class="uri"><a class="uri" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish’s Homepage</a></code><br/>                    </p></div></div></div></div></div><div><p class="copyright">Copyright © 2008 Shlomi Fish</p></div><div><div id="main_legal_notice" class="legalnotice"><p>This work is licensed under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/">Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License</a> (or at your option a greater version of it).</p></div></div><div><div class="revhistory"><table><tr><th colspan="3"><strong>Revision History</strong></th></tr><tr><td>Revision 1675</td><td>2007-04-02</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Forked the template from a previous work and working on it.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1871</td><td>2008-05-04</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Finalised the first draft. About to receive feedback.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1872</td><td>2008-05-04</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed many spelling/grammar/etc. problems, trailing whitespace, etc.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1882</td><td>2008-05-06</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed many spelling, grammar and syntax problems (thanks in part to Omer Zak). Added some bolds, and id=“”s, added the about section, reorganised the text a bit, and added the note about responsiveness and startup time.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1884</td><td>2008-05-06</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Changed “a software” to something more idiomatic, and fixed a bad phrasing towards the beginning.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 5218</td><td>2008-05-15</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Forked the document from the first revision, and converted to DocBook-4.5.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 5329</td><td>2008-05-24</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the suggestion of speaking about “Why software quality is important”, and the note about popularity to the introduction. Placed the Intro FCS story in the “Motivation” section. Added the “organisation” sub-section to the Intro. Added the note about the generic “weight function”. Added a link to “The Stanford Checker”. Corrected many “a software” instances. Added the note about how Linux and Windows looked to the Aesthetics. Added the note about low-quality code and organisational quality to the “good code” section. Added the footnote about a comprehensive comparison of Freecell solvers. Added the note about solution length and “other advantages” of fc-solve. Updated the “Thanks” section. Made many other corrections.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 5492</td><td>2008-06-09</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed “manifest” to “is manifested”.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 4859</td><td>2011-06-05</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Convert to Unicode single-quotes and double-quotes.</td></tr></table></div></div></div><hr/></div><div class="toc"><div class="toc-title">Table of Contents</div><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#introduction">Introduction</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#motivation">Motivation</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#organisation">Organisation of this Document</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml">Parameters of Quality</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#software_is_available">The Program is Available for Downloading or Buying</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#version_number_indicated">The Version Number is Clearly Indicated</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#source_is_available">The Source is Available, Preferably under a Usable Licence</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#just_works">It “Just Works”</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#homepage">The Program has a Homepage</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#easy_to_compile_and_install">The Program is Easy to Compile, Deploy and Install</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#has_packages">The Program Has Packages for Most Common Distributions</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#documentation">The Program Has Good, Extensive and Usable Documentation</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#portability">Portability</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#security">Security</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#backwards_compatiblity">Backwards Compatibility</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#good_ways_to_provide_support">Good Ways to Provide Support</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#speed-and-good-performance">Speed and High Performance</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#aesthetics">Aesthetics</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml#quality-parameters-conclusion">Conclusion</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml">Ways to Achieve Quality</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#modular-code">Having Modular, Well-Written Code</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#automated-tests">Automated Tests</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#beta-testers">Beta Testers</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#frequent-releases">Frequency of Releases</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#good-software-management">Good Software Management</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#tactfullness">Good Social Engineering Skills</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#bad-politics">No Bad Politics</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#good-communication-skills">Good Communication Skills</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#hype">Hype</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#good-name">A Good Name</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="ways-to-achieve-quality.xhtml#measures-conclusion">Conclusion</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml">Analysis of the Quality of the Various Freecell Solvers</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml#freecell-solvers-quality--intro">Introduction</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml#freecell-solvers-quality--analysis">The Analysis Itself</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="freecell-solvers-quality.xhtml#freecell-solvers-quality--conclusion">Conclusion</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml">About This Document</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_copyrights">Copyrights</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_author">About the Author</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="about.xhtml#about_acknowledgements">Acknowledgements</a></span></li></ul></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="introduction" class="title">Introduction</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#motivation">Motivation</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#organisation">Organisation of this Document</a></span></li></ul></div><p>Why is high quality in software important? Low-quality software applications will require the users or end-developers to work around their bugs and limitations, write a lot of extra functionality themselves, and as a result, duplicate a lot of effort and cause a lot of frustration and unhappiness. This is assuming they don’t give up on it soon or right away, and end up looking for something else.</p><p>But what makes a popular software application “high-quality”? A high-quality program or library can be defined as one that is usable as is, that causes very few frustrations, and that requires little if any modifications or workarounds to get it up-to-speed.</p><p>I’m not talking about the application that’s the most hyped, or the fastest, most featureful, or best. Sometimes you can often hear endless rants and <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fear,_uncertainty_and_doubt">Fear, Uncertainty and Doubt (FUD)</a> attacks about it. Often, it has competing programs that are superior in many respects.</p><p>In this essay we’ll look at what quality metrics apply to software.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="motivation" class="title">Motivation</h3></div></div></div><p>How did it occur to me to ponder this question? I am active in the <a class="link" href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/fc-solve-discuss/">fc-solve-discuss mailing list</a>, which is dedicated to computerised techniques for solving <a class="link" href="http://www.freecell.org/">the Freecell solitaire card game</a>, and for discussing other automated solving and research of Solitaire games. This mailing list was started after I wrote <a class="link" href="http://fc-solve.shlomifish.org/">Freecell Solver</a> (with a lowercase “c” and an uppercase “S”), an open-source solver, which has proven to be quite popular. However, the mailing list was not restricted to discussing it exclusively, and was joined by many other Freecell solving experts, researchers and enthusiasts.</p><p>Recently, Gary Campbell wrote <a class="link" href="http://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/fc-solve-discuss/message/741">this message</a> reading:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>I think the solver discussion in the Wikipedia should mention that the FCPro solvers give quite lengthy and virtually unusable solutions. No human wants to follow the several hundred steps that usually result in order to get at what’s really required to solve a given layout. If someone wants a solution that can be understood, they want one that is under 100 steps. This is a major contribution and it should be stated. There are a lot of <span class="bold"><strong>“toy”</strong></span> solvers and only a very few of <span class="bold"><strong>“industrial strength.”</strong></span> One of the latter is the solver by Danny Jones. I don’t see that on your list. The results he has gotten from his solver pretty much put your solver to shame. The more you hype Freecell Solver, the more criticism you open yourself up to.</p></blockquote></div><p>Unfortunately, it’s hard for me to determine what “industrial strength”, “enterprise grade” and other such buzzwords are. But I’ll try to define high quality here, and try to show when a program is high quality.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="organisation" class="title">Organisation of this Document</h3></div></div></div><p>I initially <span class="bold"><strong>wanted to give some examples</strong></span> for open-source software that I considered to be of exceptional high-quality, but I decided against it.</p><p>That’s because their exceptional quality is a matter of taste, and it may provoke too much criticism against this essay as a whole. Thus, I’ll just give some examples, possibly accompanied by screenshots, of places where one program does something better than a different program. That does not imply that the latter is in fact of lower-quality than the former, in all possible respects.</p><p>This article is written from my point-of-view as a developer of <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open_source_software">“Free and Open Source Software”</a>, and will focus on open-source and pseudo-open-source software. However, a lot of what I say is more universal.</p></section></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="parameters-of-quality.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Parameters of Quality</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>