<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>"Fear is the path to the dark side"</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml" title="Chuck Norris"/><link rel="next" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml" title="Hakuna Matata - no worries and no problems"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">"Fear is the path to the dark side"</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="fear-is-path-to-dark-side" class="title">"Fear is the path to the dark side"</h2></div></div></div><p><a class="link" href="https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yoda">Master Yoda</a> from Star Wars is a <a class="link" href="great-hackers.xhtml" title="Great Hackers">great hacker</a>, despite being fictional, and we can learn a lot from what <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFnFr-DOPf8">he said about being unnecessarily paranoid:</a></p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to suffering. And I sense much fear in you.</p></blockquote></div><p>When one is irrationally paranoid, he will become careless which may cause him to lose property (including data) or even his life.</p><p>Following the <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Snowden">Snowden findings</a>, some people decided to go to great lengths to avoid the NSA, CIA, or FBI knowing about their private lives, and online services such as Google or Facebook "fingerprinting" them.</p><p>However, do you honestly think the NSA/etc. cares enough about you to harm you? In my <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/SummerNSA/">#SummerNSA</a> effort I have said many unkind things about <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/NSA/">an idolised version of the NSA</a>, and nothing happened to me, my homesite, and my other online writings / blogging. (And I announced <a class="link" href="https://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/comments/1bignr/xkcdinspired_screenplay_starring_summer_glau_as/">the "Summerschool at the NSA" informal screenplay</a> on reddit some months before the Snowden findings of fact.)</p><p>On freenode, a chat friend told me he was glad that Google has his gmail.com email because it means someone has them, and it will likely won't get lost like his previous E-mail got lost in a hard disk failure.</p><p>I keep most of my important digital data in public repositories on <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GitHub">GitHub</a> and other "code sharing" sites because to quote <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds">Linus Torvalds</a>: “Only wimps use tape backup. Real men just upload their important stuff on FTP and let the rest of the world mirror it.”. Nowadays, one should <a class="link" href="https://better-scm.shlomifish.org/docs/this-site-is-irrelevant/">use git as a version control system</a> most of the time, but the point is that one must <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#publish_or_perish">publish or perish</a>.</p><p>(Note that there is also <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Drive">Google Drive</a> and similar services, which are more friendly to laymen, have web interfaces, and have coarser grained revision history.)</p><p>My <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/me/contact-me/">contact info</a> is publicly available, and I actually wish for more people - of any sex/gender, ethnicity, talents and interests, race, nationality, etc. - to contact me and chat in any plausible medium.</p><p><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/sawaba/status/1038078106404315136">This tweet reads</a>: <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">I know many people that have lost priceless data forever because they decided that it needed the utmost protection. Family photos, months and years of coding work, a novel… all gone, because it *had* to be encrypted.</span>”</span></p><p>So please do not be paranoid and overly possessive of your crown jewels.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Chuck Norris </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Hakuna Matata - no worries and no problems</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>