<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Open Source Licences Wars</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="next" href="types-of-licences.xhtml" title="Types of Licences"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Open Source Licences Wars</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="types-of-licences.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section xml:lang="en" class="article"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h1 id="index" class="title">Open Source Licences Wars</h1></div><div><div class="authorgroup"><div class="author"><h2 class="author"><span class="firstname">Shlomi</span> <span class="surname">Fish</span></h2><div class="affiliation"><div class="address"><p><br/>                        <code class="email">&lt;<a class="email" href="mailto:shlomif@shlomifish.org">shlomif@shlomifish.org</a>&gt;</code><br/>                        <code class="uri"><a class="uri" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish’s Homepage</a></code><br/>                    </p></div></div></div></div></div><div><p class="copyright">Copyright © 2008 Shlomi Fish</p></div><div><div id="main_legal_notice" class="legalnotice"><p>This work is licensed under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.5/">Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 License</a> (or at your option a greater version of it).</p></div></div><div><div class="revhistory"><table><tr><th colspan="3"><strong>Revision History</strong></th></tr><tr><td>Revision 2659</td><td>2009-08-21</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed some small typos and misphrasings.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2651</td><td>2009-08-21</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added descriptions of strong copyleft licences, some links to opinions about which licence to choose. Spell checked and prepared for release.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2453</td><td>2009-06-30</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added descriptions of weak copyleft licences.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2452</td><td>2009-06-30</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Fixed some typos and misphrasings.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2434</td><td>2009-06-18</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the Freecell though experiment.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2433</td><td>2009-06-18</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the Exceed thought-experiment.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2431</td><td>2009-06-18</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Added the part about the GPL and the hacker attitude.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 2428</td><td>2009-06-15</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Finished up to the first E-mail in the Hackers-IL thread. Now to cover the rest of the E-mails.</td></tr><tr><td>Revision 1000</td><td>2008-07-19</td><td>shlomif</td></tr><tr><td colspan="3">Forked the template from a previous work and working on it.</td></tr></table></div></div></div><hr/></div><div class="toc"><div class="toc-title">Table of Contents</div><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#introduction">Introduction</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#spoiler">Spoiler</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="types-of-licences.xhtml">Types of Licences</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="types-of-licences.xhtml#what-is-a-free-software-licence">What is a Free Software Licence?</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="types-of-licences.xhtml#public-domain-licences">Public Domain Licences</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="types-of-licences.xhtml#weak-copyleft-licences">Weak Copyleft Licences</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="types-of-licences.xhtml#strong-copyleft-licences">Strong Copyleft Licences</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="uncertainty.xhtml">Uncertainty in Categorising Licences</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="other-opinions.xhtml">Some Opinions about the Different Licences</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml">Which Licence To Choose</a></span><ul><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-non-open-source">Bad Idea No. 1: Choose a non-Open-Source Licence</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-non-gpl-compatible">Bad Idea No. 2: Choose a non-GPL-Compatible Licence</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-custom">Bad Idea No. 3: Choose a Custom Licence</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-same-as-perl">Bad Idea No. 4: “Same Terms as Perl”</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-public-domain">Bad Idea No. 5: Under the Public Domain</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="which-licence-to-choose.xhtml#which-licence-gpl-or-lgpl">Bad Idea No. 6: Using the GPL or the LGPL</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span class="section"><a href="why-I-prefer-the-mit-x11-licence.xhtml">Why I Prefer the MIT X11 Licence</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="strong-copyleft-and-threats-to-foss.xhtml">Strong Copyleft and Preventing Threats to FOSS</a></span></li></ul></div><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="introduction" class="title">Introduction</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="index.xhtml#spoiler">Spoiler</a></span></li></ul></div><p>When <a class="link" href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/">Joel Spolsky (“Joel on Software”)</a> wrote his notorious blog post <a class="link" href="http://www.joelonsoftware.com/items/2006/09/01.html">“Language Wars”</a>, many people asked whether he has “jumped the shark” and that his blog will go downhill from there. I too have read the post, and agreed, that while it had a few good points, it was too based on “feeling rather than knowing”. Joel later on posted many good articles and shorter entries on his blog, but many people still recalled it as a very low-point in the blog.</p><p>Like Joel, I have a home-site and several blogs, where I post articles and essays about my thoughts, and this time I’ve decided to risk something similar to what Joel has done on an equally flamatory topic: <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software_licence">licences of open-source software</a>. I’m going to introduce the various options, explain a little about their motivation and then give some advice according to my own personal opinion.</p><p id="ianal">I should note that I am not a lawyer, and only write this according to my best knowledge, understanding and experience. <a href="#ftn.ianal" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote">[IANAL]</sup></a> I think what I’m writing here is correct, but would still appreciate any correction for future versions. If you’re unsure about my advice, then you should consult a legal expert (if you can afford one) or your local or global Free and Open Source Software organisation. I cannot guarantee my advice is valid.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="spoiler" class="title">Spoiler</h3></div></div></div><p>In this spoiler I’ll explain what I’m using right away, which is also what I recommend other people to use. When I started releasing my code as open-source software, I used <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public_domain">the Public Domain</a>. So, for example, <a class="link" href="http://fc-solve.shlomifish.org/">Freecell Solver</a> which is one of my earliest projects and still one of the most successful, used to carry a <code class="filename">COPYING</code> file with the following contents:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Relax, this is not GPL software, but rather it is distributed under the public domain. It means it can be linked against anything, converted to any different license, freely used and distributed, and anything else without any restrictions whatsoever. No Strings Attached!™</p></blockquote></div><p>(This was also a joke of sorts.)</p><p>Later on, to avoid the problematic status of public domain code in many countries, and to avoid other potential legal problems, I started distributing my original code under <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X11_license">the MIT X11 Licence</a>, a BSD-style licence which is the closest one to the Public Domain. If the project I’m contributing to has a different licence, then I disclaim any explicit or implicit ownership on the code I wrote, and allow the existing copyright holders to do with my code as they see fit.</p><p>Note that I’m using different terms for other types of digital artworks. Most of my essays (including this one) are under the <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution Licence</a>, my original (i.e: non-derived-work or fan-art) fictitious stories are under <a class="link" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">the Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike Licence</a> (which is more GPL-like), and most of the photos I took and published were placed under the Public Domain.</p></section></section><div class="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.ianal" class="footnote"><p><a href="#ianal" class="para"><sup class="para">[IANAL] </sup></a>Some people believe that discussing legal matters should be reserved to people who are Law experts. However, this is a <a class="link" href="http://use.perl.org/comments.pl?sid=39148&amp;cid=62149">sub-case of the “only specialists should deal with a specialised field” fallacy</a>.</p><p>Like it or not, the Law affects us all and the Government expects common citizens to be aware of it and not violate it, even if they are not lawyers. As software developers, we do not limit discussions on software and computing to people with a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science (much less a Ph.D. or whatever) and often not-too-qualified people can be very knowledgeable and/or productive.</p><p>Similarly, I expect discussions on the governmental law to have a lower barrier for entry than people who are qualified lawyers, or Law Professors.</p></div></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="types-of-licences.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top"> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Types of Licences</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>