<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Hypomania is OK</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="taylor_swift.xhtml" title="Taylor Swift as a hypomania-&quot;sufferer&quot;"/><link rel="next" href="my_treatment.xhtml" title="The Sad Story of My Treatment"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Hypomania is OK</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="taylor_swift.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="my_treatment.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="hypomania_is_ok" class="title">Hypomania is OK</h2></div></div></div><p>Hypomania has been believed to be treatable with medication, just like homosexuality in Turing’s time, but I pretty much know the medication only causes many harmful side-effects, and in my case increasingly deprives me of physical energy. My parents thought that using these drugs allowed me to graduate from a B.Sc. in <a class="link" href="https://github.com/shlomif/my-real-person-fan-fiction#the-technion-vs-project-euler">EE in the Technion</a>. Hoerver, not only did they not help, but I now know that these were the 6 and a half most soul destroying, unproductive, useless, and uninspiring years of my life.</p><p>That was because the only reason I continued to learn there was because I wanted to get the diploma so I’ll get more lucrative, higher paying, jobs. If I studied in the Technion or elsewhere, because it was fun, and to expand my horizons, or become a more effective writer / software developer / <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=paul-graham-what-ameteur-meant">amateur</a> philosopher / entertainer , then it would be less of a torture.</p><p>In this day and age people can learn enough about all that by starting from <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/">my homesite - www.shlomifish.org</a> and following the text of the essays, stories and screenplays, and links. While it took me a long time to hone my skills to my level, I wish future people who wish to try to emulate me, to have an easier time. I may be a badass writer and entertainer, but given that I know I should <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/NSA/">"Publish or Perish"</a> and love to share my wisdom and knowledge anyway, and wish people to learn from my mistakes and my successes.</p><p>Most of my screenplays, stories, bits, factoids, <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/user/ShlomiFish">the few videos I have on YouTube</a> (which are very lame compared to the videos of Taylor Swift, but they are a start), <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif">my tweets</a> etc. were inspired by thoughts I had during hypomanias, and I quite enjoy it.</p><p>Sometimes I get into periods of mild <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_depressive_disorder">depressions</a> during which I like to code a lot and to chat less passionately and philosophically on IRC. Or I get into "deep work mode" when I write or <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_refactoring">refactor</a> / transition a lot of code or churn a large amount of text. These are also ok.</p><p>Taylor Swift should not be worried from being medicated for being Bipolar. She may do "strange" things such as:</p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem">Paying for anything she orders from a meal down to a soft drink, a glass of juice, or even some water, with a 50 USD bill telling the vendor/waiter to keep the change or donate it to charity (or give it to her, only to witness her leaving it on one of the tables for whoever wishes to take it).</li><li class="listitem">Walk alone in the neighbourhood thinking.</li><li class="listitem">Staying up at night chatting in social media chat rooms (e.g. <a class="link" href="https://freenode.net">Freenode</a>, <a class="link" href="https://discordapp.com">Discord</a>, <a class="link" href="https://telegram.org">Telegram</a>, and <a class="link" href="https://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/How_Alternatives_Proliferate/">many others</a>), while ordering food or drinks from time to time.</li><li class="listitem">Engage in conversations with complete strangers, to whom she will even gladly <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1175578541292957696">give money</a>.</li><li class="listitem">Eat various foods based upon a whim. I once ordered a warm pasta meal in the morning, and the restaurant complied.</li></ul></div><p>Policemen are unlikely to detain her, and she can use social engineering and <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-cards-on-the-table-2019-2020/#benevolent-psychological-warfare">benevolent psychological warfare</a> so they just give her a ride back home, or leave her alone while thinking that her behaviour just "comes with the territory".</p><p>Perhaps I have mischaracterised Ms. Swift here, but the point is that these behaviours, although eccentric, unconventional, and non-conformist are perfectly logical, and I will do the same if I were a wealthy bipolar person.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="taylor_swift.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="my_treatment.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Taylor Swift as a hypomania-"sufferer" </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> The Sad Story of My Treatment</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>