<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Sad Story of My Treatment</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="hypomania_is_ok.xhtml" title="Hypomania is OK"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Sad Story of My Treatment</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hypomania_is_ok.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> </td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="my_treatment" class="title">The Sad Story of My Treatment</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="my_treatment.xhtml#_a_million_psychiatrists_can_be_wrong">A Million Psychiatrists can be wrong</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="my_treatment.xhtml#_please_dont_take_anger_the_wrong_way">Please don’t take anger the wrong way</a></span></li></ul></div><p>However, I am not so lucky.</p><p>In the break after my second Technion semester, I started writing <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/TOneW-the-Fountainhead/">The One With The Fountainhead</a> - which is a parodical crossover of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fountainhead">Ayn Rand’s The Fountainhead</a> and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friends">the Friends T.V. show</a>, and which is one of the funniest, most politically incorrect, and yet some people’s favourite of my screenplays.</p><p>Moreover, I corresponded with my friend <a class="link" href="https://zak.co.il/">Omer Zak</a> and we came up with the opening meme to the <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/SummerNSA/">Summerschool at the NSA</a> effort.</p><p>All of this made me maniacal and out of control and I came up with an imaginary reality where <a class="link" href="https://memory-alpha.fandom.com/wiki/Star_Trek:_Deep_Space_Nine">Star Trek DS9</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer">Buffy</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sabrina_the_Teenage_Witch_%281996_TV_series%29">Sabrina</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clarissa_Explains_It_All">CEIA</a> <a class="link" href="https://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Neo-Tech">Neo-Tech</a>, various characters from <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Judaism">Judaism</a> , some of their actors, and some of my own friends and relatives, were real and integrated together, and believed this was true.</p><p>I had done a lot of crazy stuff during my mania, but eventually a psychiatrist asked me if I thought if it sounded logical that I could read other people’s minds, and I told him it didn’t. As a result, I snapped out of the mania.</p><p>Afterwards, I have been treated with harmful drugs that had many side effects, and did not prevent future hypomanias or other mood swings. Furthermore, my hypomanias were incredibly productive for me resulting in stuff I placed on <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/">my homesite</a> - and on other social media sites, and which many similar minded hackers (both male and female) enjoyed, complimented me for it, thought they were funny, or alternatively thought they were <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Encourage_criticism_and_try_to_get_offended/">blasphemous (which indicates they were true)</a>.</p><p>But the people who wanted me to be "mentally healthy" told me these things were irrational, wrong, "schema-driven" and that they were nonsense and that I should not give them weight.</p><p>They were wrong! They were insightful, fresh, and endured their time.</p><p>Now, while I have suffered from many harmful antipsychotics - <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shc_mo/status/1180165973556506626">it may still be fixed</a> but what if instead of these harmful legal drugs, I would have been treated with good therapy, possibly <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_behavioral_therapy">Cognitive behavioral therapy</a> or more preferably <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-cards-on-the-table-2019-2020/#benevolent-psychological-warfare">Saladin-style benevolent therapy</a>.</p><p>How many potential Taylor Swifts were forced to be a "Shlomi Fish" like me, who despite all was very productive and insightful, or were just hospitalised and sedated and fought against by mediocre minds, who think conformism is mental health, while <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-cards-on-the-table-2019-2020/">it is the opposite</a>. Furthermore, conformism leads to Nazi-style <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superior_orders">"Superior orders" / The "Nuremberg defense"</a>, including the "I just work here" <a class="link" href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2004/12/06/news-45/">small minded attitude</a> which leads to sadism and vandalism and loss of lives and property that took a lot of effort to construct by hard working, enthusiastic individuals.</p><p>So I say: "do what you want, not what you feel you must. The choice is in your hands. Whatever you do, I’ll accept that." These words go back at least to <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moses">Moses</a>, were <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">exemplified by Saladin</a> and were extended and conveyed by greater and greater "memes" including <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T7HiMv5jygk">Taylor Swift’s "Shake it Off" song</a> and the somewhat more established <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d2RZXeQc5HU">"Highway to Hell" song by AC/DC</a> (these are both links to two of my favourite covers of them).</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="_a_million_psychiatrists_can_be_wrong" class="title">A Million Psychiatrists can be wrong</h3></div></div></div><p>Some people think that a million psychiatrists (and the mass media) cannot be wrong, but they can. In other news, everyone <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flat_Earth">knows the Earth is flat</a>, and that the <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galileo_Galilei">sun and all the planets revolve around the Earth</a>, and that <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Darwin">all species of animals were created about 6,000 years ago</a>, and that <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bertrand_Russell">unmarried couples living together and having premarital sex</a> is unethical and immoral. And, naturally, homosexual individuals are a menace to society and must be medicated and sedated.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="_please_dont_take_anger_the_wrong_way" class="title">Please don’t take anger the wrong way</h3></div></div></div><p>My psychotherapist told me that anger and rage were typical of being hypomanic. I feel that my rage, although criticised by other people, does serve a useful and natural purpose.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hypomania_is_ok.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> </td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Hypomania is OK </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> </td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>