<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><title>Section «How Technology is Empowering Youth» of Putting all the Cards on the Table (2003)</title><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish"/><meta name="keywords" content=""/><style>a:hover{background-color:#98fb98}</style></head><body><div class="section"><h2 id="empowering_youth">How Technology is Empowering Youth</h2><p>During the Middle Ages, the apprentices of craftsmen graduated to become masters, and started their own shops, at a much younger age than 18. Today, most people graduate from high school at that age, and are expected to remain disadvantaged until then. There isn’t a good reason why the youth of today should not be able to make useful contributions to arts, sciences, philosophy, and entertainment, despite their young age and inexperience.</p><p>Here are some examples:</p><ol><li><p>Dmitri Gaskin is a core developer of both jQuery and Drupal and gave a <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8mwKq7_JlS8">talk about jQuery on Google Tech Talks</a>, while being 12 years old.</p></li><li><p>Maria Aragon was 10 years old when she was recorded performing <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xG0wi1m-89o">a cover</a> of Lady Gaga’s song “Born This Way”, which has received over 50 million views on YouTube as of April 2013 (and which I like better than the original).</p></li><li><p>Much previously, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a> changed the fate of the cold war, when being 10 years old, by the simple act of writing a letter.</p></li><li><p>In the 18th century, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Friedrich_Gauss">Carl Friedrich Gauss</a> started making important contributions to mathematics from a very early age.</p></li></ol><p>Our contemporary culture expects kids (what Americans refer to as children, “pre-teens”, and “teenagers”) to remain “innocent”, naïve and inexperienced, and immature, and, as a result, most of them behave accordingly.</p><p>As I noted previously, Jennifer Lawrence was unusual in having received the Oscar’s at the relatively young age of 22. ( Previously, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marlee_Matlin">Marlee Matlin</a> won it when she was 21 years old, back in 1986, but it was an isolated case. ). I anticipate, and hope, that Lawrence’s winning will bring forth an age where some even younger film makers, receive the Academy Awards. Perhaps as young as being 10 years old - perhaps younger.</p><p>The Internet and other modern technologies empower many other previously encumbered sections of the population aside from people of certain ages, but it's high time we recognise, that we enter a world where young people are more empowered.</p></div></body></html>