<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><title>Section «What I Learned from Role Playing Games» of Putting all the Cards on the Table (2003)</title><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish"/><meta name="keywords" content=""/><style>a:hover{background-color:#98fb98}</style></head><body><div class="section"><h2 id="learned_from_rpgs">What I Learned from Role Playing Games</h2><p>I used to play <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tabletop_role-playing_game">Tabletop role-playing games</a> such as Dungeons &amp; Dragons during the 8th and 9th grade until I quit, and it provided some important insights for me about real-life. The first one was about the importance of being <b>resourceful</b>: think outside the box, come up with creative solutions, don’t think in terms of yes vs. no.</p><p>The second one is the D&amp;D concept of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Experience_point">experience points</a> which the characters gain and later can invest in improving their skills or acquiring new ones. Real life has a similar concept: time. We can spend our time performing tasks, which in turn will enhance one or more of our skills. The time one spends writing an essay, a blog post or a story, will enhance their writing skills, and their personal philosophy, and will make it easier for them to write more in the future. The time invested cooking will make one a better cook, and will make it easier to cook in the future.</p><p>The more time we invest in honing a certain skill, the easier it is to become better and better in it.</p><p>One complication to all that is the sad phenomenon of <a href="http://shlomif.livejournal.com/44643.html">“Psyche Death” or “Growth Death”</a> where a person become more and more cynical and their mind deteriorates, while he continues to be alive. This makes the sum of his abilities and skills lesser and lesser. But a person can reverse their psyche death or growth death easily enough by first acknowledging it and then reversing it.</p></div></body></html>