<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><title>Section «The Machines That Can Give You Questions» of Putting all the Cards on the Table (2003)</title><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish"/><meta name="keywords" content=""/><style>a:hover{background-color:#98fb98}</style></head><body><div class="section"><h2 id="machines_that_can_give_questions">The Machines That Can Give You Questions</h2><p>Back when <a href="http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Pablo_Picasso">Pablo Picasso</a> was asked for commenting about computers, he said “But they are useless. They can only give you answers.” and in a sense he was right, because most computers at his time were used for one-off (and time-consuming) calculations and simulations. But there was another use of computers that was still in its infancy then and unknown: computer networking. But as technology improved, it became more and more powerful and pervasive.</p><p>The 1986 film <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jumpin%27_Jack_Flash_%28film%29"><i>Jumpin' Jack Flash</i></a> starring Whoopi Goldberg (which I highly enjoyed and can recommend) exemplified the power of early computer communications, though they were still in their infancy. The early popular Internet around the late 90s, with the so-called <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_1.0">“Web 1.0”</a> was a hodgepodge of static web sites (often at GeoCities), lots of useless or incomplete information, search engines that were still not very good, and naturally, lots of fan pages of <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffy_the_Vampire_Slayer_%28TV_series%29">Buffy</a>, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Michelle_Gellar">Sarah Michelle Gellar</a> (whom I can retrospectively tell was the Jennifer Lawrence of the time), and other contemporary trends such as <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Harry_Potter">Harry Potter</a> or <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friends">the <i>Friends</i> Television series</a></p><p>If you wanted an interactive many-to-many discussion, you had to use Usenet, or mailing lists, or Internet Relay Chat (IRC), or Slashdot, or whatever.</p><p>That has changed significantly, with the fact that the browser scripting language <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript">JavaScript</a> matured, <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki">wikis</a> (= world-editable sites, such as the Wikipedia), web forums and blogs became popular, and search engines (most notably <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Search">Google Web Search</a>) became better. Later on, we’ve seen the rise of web-based social networks such as Facebook, Twitter or Google Plus, which provide a more integrated experience.</p><p>That does not mean that all the old Internet mediums are dying - mailing lists , IRC, and even some Web 1.0 sites (including my own) are still alive and kicking, and people now are increasingly using <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XMPP">Jabber/XMPP/GTalk/GChat</a>.</p><p>Anyway, because computer networking allows humans to communicate with other humans, they can provide you with questions. Lots and lots of questions. So I think Pablo Picasso would have loved the Internet (and other means of online communications such as SMSes, phone calls, mobile phone calls, etc.) of 2013.</p></div></body></html>