<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><title>Section «Silver Linings Playbook» of Putting all the Cards on the Table (2003)</title><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish"/><meta name="keywords" content=""/><style>a:hover{background-color:#98fb98}</style></head><body><div class="section"><h2 id="silver_linings_playbook"><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silver_Linings_Playbook"><i>Silver Linings Playbook</i></a></h2><p>A good friend recommended me to watch the film <i>Silver Linings Playbook</i>, and said it discussed a man who had <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bipolar_disorder">Bipolar disorder (or “Manic Depressive disorder”)</a>, which is something I have been suffering from as well. I watched the film and found it imperfect: slow starting, irresponsible, and a little depressing at times. But it was a great film, with some great acting, many jokes and many awkward and funny situations, and many details I could relate to. So it was perfect simply because it was imperfect. Films that are too perfect are too boring.</p><p>Anyway, the theme of the film was that you can be happy and content even if it appears you are a “loser”. Despite the fact that I am still living with my parents at 35, that I've never been in a relationship with a girl (and I am a straight guy), that I had a hard time keeping a job as a programmer, and it's been a while since I've gone out of Israel, I am not a loser, and neither probably are you.</p><p>That put aside, I still want fame, recognition, money, and becoming a household name. It's just what I want and what I think I can do. That's part of who I am, and part of what I think I can do.</p></div></body></html>