<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><title>Section «Please all → Please none» of Putting all the Cards on the Table (2003)</title><meta charset="utf-8"/><meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish"/><meta name="keywords" content=""/><style>a:hover{background-color:#98fb98}</style></head><body><div class="section"><h2 id="trying_to_please_everybody">Please all → Please none</h2><p>The fable <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_miller,_his_son_and_the_donkey">“The miller, his son and the donkey”</a> tells the story of an old man, his young son and a donkey, who walk from one city to another and no matter how they utilise the donkey (without anyone on it; putting only the son on the donkey; putting only the father on the donkey ; both riding the donkey; etc.), people criticise them for the situation. The conclusion was “Please all and you shall please none”.</p><p>How is it important? Some people, especially those that are jealous or envious of you are <b>bound to berate</b> you. You smiled while performing a sad song? Someone will complain. You’re wearing prescription glasses, like I do? Someone will <a href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/480765130242662400">label you as “half-blind”</a>. You wrote some Star Trek fan fiction? Someone will tell you it’s lame. You wrote Chuck Norris facts or <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lolcat">lolcats</a>? Ditto.</p><p>You're thin? Fat? Chubby? Plump? <a href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/307702411047350272">Look too normal</a>? Someone is bound to complain.</p><p>So just be happy with who you are.</p><p>Naturally, if enough people complain, and/or you think their criticism has some merits, you can try to improve in some respects (without making a fuss about it). But be happy with what you have and who you are, despite all the haters.</p></div></body></html>