<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Big minded ("Rosh gadol") vs. Small minded ("Rosh qatan")</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="do_and_let_do__live_and_let_live.xhtml" title="&quot;Live and let live; do and let do&quot;"/><link rel="next" href="amateurs.xhtml" title="Amateurs vs. Professionals"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Big minded ("Rosh gadol") vs. Small minded ("Rosh qatan")</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="do_and_let_do__live_and_let_live.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="amateurs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="big-minded-vs-small-minded" class="title">Big minded ("Rosh gadol") vs. Small minded ("Rosh qatan")</h2></div></div></div><p>The Israeli military was small and as there was a lot of work to do to properly secure the Israeli civilians it coined the terms <a class="link" href="https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2004/12/06/news-45/">Rosh gadol ("big minded") and Rosh qatan ("small minded")</a> to encourage the soldiers to take initiative and try to perform their jobs as well as possible, regardless of the fact they were paid little.</p><p>This extends to non-military work, government work, and voluntary work or hobbies and endeavours: if you care about something, do it as well as possible and give it enough time as needed. It will get easier and faster in time.</p><p>For instance, a vendor on a candy store or an icecream parlour, should try to greet the customers, be friendly to them, offer recommendations to them if they ask, accept business cards with their personal web sites or social media presence and visit them, and generally treat every customer like royalty.</p><p>If you do this, you'll likely get more returning customers, bigger tips, bigger bonuses and raises, and you may be able to land a better job based on a warm recommendation from your superiors and coworkers.</p><p>The opposite is <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micromanagement">Micromanagement</a> where you do exactly as you are told.</p><p>Note that the Nazis' <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superior_orders">Superior orders - "I was only following orders"</a> is orthogonal to this. Despite common belief the Nazis were very <a class="link" href="https://www.geekwire.com/2011/top-10-reasons-darth-vader-amazing-project-manager/">big minded / "Rosh Gadol"</a>, which may explain their initial effectiveness.</p><p id="why_nl_princess">One may opt to <span class="bold"><strong>refuse orders</strong></span> completely, and given the bad reputation that Superior orders got recently, the <a class="link" href="https://www.phrases.org.uk/meanings/263700.html">"Off with his head"</a> Shakespeare and Lewis Carroll parody of Absolutism is unlikely to happen anywhere. If <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catharina-Amalia,_Princess_of_Orange">the current Dutch heir apparent</a> requests a private jet flight at nighttime for a non-Emergency (which is what foolishly killed <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a> and her father, and six other people), she will probably be refused. She is unlikely to request that anyway but that is besides the point. <a href="#ftn.why_nl_princess" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote">[Why I picked the Dutch princess?]</sup></a></p><p>If your superior in any way requests something reasonable, you should comply with their request and be bigminded about it. But feel free to refuse harmful orders or requests. Despite common belief, this should not cause anarchy, but rather bring peace and prosperity.</p><div class="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.why_nl_princess" class="footnote"><p><a href="#why_nl_princess" class="para"><sup class="para">[Why I picked the Dutch princess?] </sup></a>I picked her simply because she is older than Queen Elizabeth II's oldest great-grandchild.</p></div></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="do_and_let_do__live_and_let_live.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="amateurs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">"Live and let live; do and let do" </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Amateurs vs. Professionals</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>