<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Chuck Norris</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml" title="Taylor Swift"/><link rel="next" href="fear-is-path-to-dark-side.xhtml" title="&quot;Fear is the path to the dark side&quot;"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Chuck Norris</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="fear-is-path-to-dark-side.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="Chuck_Norris" class="title">Chuck Norris</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml#factoids_trend">Update about the factoids’ trend</a></span></li></ul></div><p>My <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#chuck_norris">previous analysis of Chuck Norris and the Chuck Norris factoids trend</a> turned out to not be the last word on the subject. It is well known that Norris took the facts to his advantage, and as a result became the most prominent actor in Hollywood (which I call "the Alpha Male"). However, shortly afterwards, the factoids seem to have fallen out of favour, and some time after that, Norris announced that he retired from acting.</p><p>Now, I still added factoids about other subjects <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/">to my collection</a>. Then one day in 2019, I was chatting on the #gnu chat room on <a class="link" href="https://freenode.net/">freenode</a> and after giving someone some advice, I came up with a new factoid which I uttered there: <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">If Chuck Norris gives you some advice, and you do not follow it, he'll survive. However, you likely won't.</span>”</span>. To my surprise, my fellow to the conversation, told me it was funny. Some days later I spent some time with my sister's husband, who is an artist and a film maker, and showed him some of the software applications and web services, which I was familiar with as a <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linux">Linux (or rather "GNU/Linux")</a> user and developer. Then, just when he and my sister were going away, I told him I had some factoids on my site about Chuck Norris/etc., and he told me he was a big fan of those.</p><p>So what has happened?</p><p>What I think happened is that Norris started playing (and fighting) in roles he liked, even if he didn't get paid or got paid relatively little, or was paid after the fact. He became a happy <a class="link" href="amateurs.xhtml" title="Amateurs vs. Professionals">amateur</a> rather than an increasingly unhappy professional. I won't be surprised if he has agreed to appear at local schools' plays, and/or playing roles that were seemingly unlike his traditional Hollywood roles - just because he liked them.</p><p>As a result of that, I believe Chuck Norris, both himself and the fictionalised Chuck Norris Facts image, has become a new <a class="link" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml" title="The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs">Hacker Monarch</a>. Well Done!</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="factoids_trend" class="title">Update about the factoids’ trend</h3></div></div></div><p>To my knowledge, I was the first to have come up with factoids about a fictional female (= <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Xena/">Xena the Warrior Princess</a>). Later on, inspired by <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=summer-glau-vs-chuck-norris">an IRC chat</a>, I came up with <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">factoids</a> about a real life female, Summer Glau. These were followed by some factoids about <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Emma-Watson/">Emma Watson</a>, and more recently some about <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Taylor-Swift/">Taylor Swift</a>.</p><p>My friends and I also came up with factoids about inanimate technologies and organisations such as <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Windows-Update/">those about Windows Update</a>.</p></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="fear-is-path-to-dark-side.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Taylor Swift </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> "Fear is the path to the dark side"</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>