<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Criticism</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="four-kinds-of-fools.xhtml" title="Six kinds of fools: avoiding prejudice"/><link rel="next" href="dont-be-afraid-to-live.xhtml" title="Do not be afraid to live"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Criticism</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="four-kinds-of-fools.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="dont-be-afraid-to-live.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="encouraging-and-handling-criticism" class="title">Criticism</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="encouraging-and-handling-criticism.xhtml#bikeshed_colour">Colour of the Bikeshed</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="encouraging-and-handling-criticism.xhtml#kipling_if">Quote from "If—" by Rudyard Kipling</a></span></li></ul></div><p>I feel that one should <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Encourage_criticism_and_try_to_get_offended/">Encourage people to criticise them</a> and try to get offended, because negative criticism highlights things where one can improve, including various falsehoods that one believes in, but are in fact false. (See: <a class="link" href="https://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/george_bernard_shaw_101824">"All great truths begin as blasphemies"</a>). On the other hand, if one only tries to hear flattery or yesmen, they are likely to get trapped in an echo chamber, and become surrounded by <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sycophancy">sycophants</a>, and improve too little.</p><p>On the other hand, one should <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Never_Try_to_Please_Everyone/">never try to please everyone</a> because some people will always dislike some aspects of your work, and the best thing you can do is disagree and move on. Back when I referred a certain fellow open source developer (who is a Christian American) to my <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Star-Trek/We-the-Living-Dead/">Star Trek: “We, the Living Dead”</a> fan fic he objected to the use of the phrase <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">hot girls</span>”</span> there, and claimed I should delete the offending pages from my site. However, I refused because I didn't disapprove of using that phrase there, and even if I did, I'd rather not remove such offending material completely, but rather either revise it or add a disclaimer note.</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="bikeshed_colour" class="title">Colour of the Bikeshed</h3></div></div></div><p>A somewhat more involved case of criticism is <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_of_the_bikeshed">Parkinson’s Law of Triviality</a> or the "colour of the bikeshed" argument in which discussions about trivial matters which many people can understand are given disproportionate time. In this case it is important to sometimes avoid insisting on one's preference. Recently, the local Israeli <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software">Free and open-source software</a> community contemplated whether to use <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WordPress">WordPress</a> or a <a class="link" href="https://davidwalsh.name/introduction-static-site-generators">static site generator</a> for the new linux.org.il site and when the consensus settled on WordPress, I accepted that despite the fact that I preferred the other option. That is because wasting time on such trivialities will not be fruitful.</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="kipling_if" class="title">Quote from "If—" by Rudyard Kipling</h3></div></div></div><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/If%E2%80%94">"If—" by Rudyard Kipling</a> is a famous poem which is the favourite of mine and many past and present people (including <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayn_Rand">Ayn Rand</a>). Quoting from it:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>If you can keep your head when all about you</p><p>Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,</p><p>If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,</p><p>But make allowance for their doubting too;</p><p>If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,</p><p>Or being lied about, don’t deal in lies,</p><p>Or being hated, don’t give way to hating,</p><p>And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise:</p></blockquote></div></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="four-kinds-of-fools.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="dont-be-afraid-to-live.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Six kinds of fools: avoiding prejudice </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Do not be afraid to live</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>