<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>"Fear is the path to the dark side"</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml" title="Chuck Norris"/><link rel="next" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml" title="Hakuna Matata - no worries and no problems"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">"Fear is the path to the dark side"</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="fear-is-path-to-dark-side" class="title">"Fear is the path to the dark side"</h2></div></div></div><p><a class="link" href="https://starwars.fandom.com/wiki/Yoda">Master Yoda</a> from Star Wars is a <a class="link" href="great-hackers.xhtml" title="Great Hackers">great hacker</a>, despite being fictional, and we can learn a lot from what <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kFnFr-DOPf8">he said about being unnecessarily paranoid:</a></p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to suffering. And I sense much fear in you.</p></blockquote></div><p>When one is irrationally paranoid, he will become suspicious, distrustful, and overzealous, and demonise people who care about him, and cause him to lose property (including data) or even his life. As I <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1324813236114497538">noted in a tweet</a>:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>I'm a full professor at an ancient university and I got here through hard work, high intelligence (lots of very clever people think I'm very clever), persistence, pulling my weight and…</p><p>AMAZING AMOUNTS OF LUCK</p></blockquote></div><p>I recall <a class="link" href="https://kungfupanda.fandom.com/wiki/Oogway">master Oogway</a> saying <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">There are no accidents</span>”</span> in the <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kung_Fu_Panda_(film)">first Kung Fu Panda film</a>, which while using a very expected plot, was funny, fun and insightful. Not saying it's always the case, but many incidents happen to you because you wanted them or was prepared for them. Maybe luck has less to do with pure chance than we assume.</p></blockquote></div><p>Thinking you have bad luck and being pessimstic may be self-fulfilling.</p><p>Following the <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Snowden">Snowden findings</a>, some people decided to go to great lengths to avoid the NSA, CIA, or FBI knowing about their private lives, and online services such as Google or Facebook "fingerprinting" them.</p><p>However, do you honestly think the NSA/etc. cares enough about you to harm you? In my <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/SummerNSA/">#SummerNSA</a> effort I have said many unkind things about <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/NSA/">an idolised version of the NSA</a>, and nothing happened to me, my homesite, and my other online writings / blogging. (And I announced <a class="link" href="https://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/comments/1bignr/xkcdinspired_screenplay_starring_summer_glau_as/">the "Summerschool at the NSA" informal screenplay</a> on reddit some months before the Snowden findings of fact.)</p><p>Moreover, I had much earlier written and published <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/TheEnemy/">The Enemy and How I Helped to Fight it</a>, which is a surrealistic political satire that criticised <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hezbollah">the Hizbullah</a> at the time, but I can also retrospectively tell had a lot of criticism directed at the IDF, Israel, and other organisations. Since my home address is common knowledge, Iran could have killed me a long time ago.</p><p>On freenode, a chat friend told me he was glad that Google has his gmail.com E-mail messages because it means someone else besides him has them, and they will likely not get lost like his previous E-mail messages got lost in a hard disk failure.</p><p>I keep most of my important digital data in public repositories on <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GitHub">GitHub</a> and other "code sharing" sites because to quote <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds">Linus Torvalds</a>: “Only wimps use tape backup. Real men just upload their important stuff on FTP and let the rest of the world mirror it.”. Nowadays, one should <a class="link" href="https://better-scm.shlomifish.org/docs/this-site-is-irrelevant/">use git as a version control system</a> most of the time, but the point is that one should <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#publish_or_perish">publish or perish</a>.</p><p>(Note that there is also <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Google_Drive">Google Drive</a> and similar services, which are more friendly to laymen, have web interfaces, and have coarser grained revision history.)</p><p>My <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/me/contact-me/">contact info</a> is publicly available, and I actually wish for more people - of any sex/gender, ethnicity, talents and interests, race, nationality, etc. - to contact me and chat in any plausible medium.</p><p><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/sawaba/status/1038078106404315136">This tweet reads</a>: <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">I know many people that have lost priceless data forever because they decided that it needed the utmost protection. Family photos, months and years of coding work, a novel… all gone, because it *had* to be encrypted.</span>”</span></p><p>Moreover as <a class="link" href="https://explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/538:_Security">xkcd #538</a> notes, the bottleneck for revealing secrets is you and the amount of pain and intimidation you're willing to endure. When I was a teenager, a friend who was physically stronger, forced me to reveal the 4 digit password to my watch's secret phone numbers - not unlike <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94LL8J8WYT0">the "Princess Bride" gate key meme</a>. Moreover, as the xkcd hover text notes, if your data is worthwhile, then you'll <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/culture/case-for-commercial-fan-fiction/indiv-nodes/open_free_share_steal.xhtml">share it far and wide</a>.</p><p>I actually even hope my thoughts have been recorded and I wish to share them. I have had many good ideas for memes or franchises, and I'm not ashamed of my wrong, stupid and/or "dirty" thoughts. I recently publicly came out with <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1497091124984528897">my deepest secret</a> which is (brace yourself) the fact that I'm attracted to physically strong and/or muscular women. And… turns out I am in good company, and I felt relieved.</p><p>So please do not be paranoid and overly possessive of your crown jewels.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hakuna-matata.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Chuck Norris </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Hakuna Matata - no worries and no problems</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>