<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Six kinds of fools: avoiding prejudice</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="people-can-change.xhtml" title="People Can Change; Companies and countries and communities too"/><link rel="next" href="encouraging-and-handling-criticism.xhtml" title="Criticism"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Six kinds of fools: avoiding prejudice</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="people-can-change.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="encouraging-and-handling-criticism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="four-kinds-of-fools" class="title">Six kinds of fools: avoiding prejudice</h2></div></div></div><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>There are two kinds of fools. One says, “This is old, and therefore good”. And one says, “This is new, and therefore better”.</p></blockquote></div><p>— <a class="link" href="http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/John_Brunner">John Brunner</a>, <span class="emphasis"><em>The Shockwave Rider</em></span></p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>Two more kinds of fools. One says: “This is popular, and therefore good”. The other says: “This is good because it’s not popular”.</p></blockquote></div><p>— Shlomi Fish (though may not be a 100% original sentiment).</p><p>(And recently people had prejudice against "mainstream" culture.)</p></blockquote></div><p>It is important not to be prejudiced against things just because they are old, new, popular, unpopular, <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1165982522091737088">seem like "a religion"</a>, were hyped, seem blasphemous or cringeworthy, are politically incorrect, etc.</p><p>I've been criticised for still using <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XML">XML</a> and related technologies, because they seem to have fallen out of favour. But I have good reasons for using XML and use it for different use cases than <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON">JSON</a> and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML">YAML</a> and various <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_markup_language">lightweight markup languages</a>, which I also use and like for different purposes.</p><p id="friends_fan_fic">Similarly, back when <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friends">the Friends TV show</a> was airing, some hard core computer geeks dismissed it, due to it being too mainstream, while I found it very good. <a href="#ftn.friends_fan_fic" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote">[friends-fan-fic]</sup></a></p><p>Lately, some people have looked down on adult male fans of the show <a class="link" href="https://mlp.fandom.com/wiki/My_Little_Pony_Friendship_is_Magic"><span class="emphasis"><em>My Little Pony Friendship is Magic</em></span></a> because it was originally intended for young children, especially young girls. This is even though most male adult fans (including me) are heterosexual and that they include some combat soldiers. In <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1174358484726497280">a tweet</a> I wrote that <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">I've always considered myself a little "girly" and now I'm even kinda proud of it, and am an otherwise straight male. “You can never truly appreciate Gilmore Girls until you've watched it in the original Klingon!”</span>”</span>. I think you'd be surprised at how much <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/#best_warriors">unmacho and geeky some of the best male warriors are</a>.</p><div class="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.friends_fan_fic" class="footnote"><p><a href="#friends_fan_fic" class="para"><sup class="para">[friends-fan-fic] </sup></a>I also wrote a <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/TOneW-the-Fountainhead/">friends fan fic episode</a> that parodies the book <span class="emphasis"><em>The Fountainhead</em></span> by Ayn Rand.</p></div></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="people-can-change.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="encouraging-and-handling-criticism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">People Can Change; Companies and countries and communities too </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Criticism</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>