<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Great Hackers</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="hacking-heroism.xhtml" title="Hacking and Heroism vs. Conformism and Tragedy"/><link rel="next" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml" title="The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Great Hackers</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hacking-heroism.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section id="beauty_and_the_geek" class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="great-hackers" class="title">Great Hackers</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="great-hackers.xhtml#fox-in-the-hens-coop">The Fox in the Chickens Coop</a></span></li></ul></div><p>A great hacker is an action hero that is aware enough of the essence of hacking to become a greater and greater hacker, despite whatever limitations he or she may have, and despite whatever setbacks they may run into.</p><p>Note that some great hackers were clearly fictional (e.g: <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yoda">Yoda</a>, <a class="link" href="https://www.geekwire.com/2011/top-10-reasons-darth-vader-amazing-project-manager/">Darth Vader</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milady_de_Winter">Milady de-Winter</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miss_Piggy">Miss Piggy</a>, or even <a class="link" href="https://mlp.fandom.com/wiki/Fluttershy">Fluttershy</a> ), some were female (e.g: <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarah_Bernhardt">Sarah Bernhardt</a> , <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayn_Rand">Ayn Rand</a>, and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_Swift">Taylor Swift</a>) and some were underage (most notably <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a>, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shirley_Temple">Shirley Temple</a>, and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macaulay_Culkin">Macaulay Culkin</a> ).</p><p>So don't let anything stop you.</p><p>Even our period's canonical "anti-geek", <a class="link" href="https://bigbangtheory.fandom.com/wiki/Penny">Penny</a> from the popular sitcom <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Big_Bang_Theory">The Big Bang Theory</a>, is a wonderful great hacker. This is evident by her constant "hacks" (or <a class="link" href="https://buffyfanfiction.fandom.com/wiki/Selinaverse#Dispelling_in_the_Selinaverse">"dispellings"</a>) of the rules and prejudice of the show's more stigmatic geeks.</p><a href="#ftn.beauty_and_the_geek" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote">[beauty-and-the-geek]</sup></a><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="fox-in-the-hens-coop" class="title">The Fox in the Chickens Coop</h3></div></div></div><p>Despite common belief what happens when you put a great hacker (whether male or female) in a secluded place with many minor hackers or conformists, is not one crushed great hacker, but rather many great hackers, who spend time effort and conscious thought on satisfying their customers, peers and superiors. That is the "fox in a chickens' coop" motif as exemplified in <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_(Genesis)">the story of Joseph in prison in the Bible</a>, and that of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milady_de_Winter">Milady de Winter in "The Three Musketeers"</a>, and in the film <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don_Juan_DeMarco">"Don Juan DeMarco"</a> . In <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">my "Summerschool at the NSA" screenplay</a>, a fictionalised <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">Summer Glau</a> (the actress who is notable for being featured in <a class="link" href="https://xkcd.com/406/">xkcd: Venting</a> ) is the fox (pardon the pun) who devours the hens of the fictionalised NSA.</p><p>I, Shlomi Fish, have done the same in real life in a top security Israeli psychiatric ward where I was hospitalised for being non normative, and for doing some foolish stuff. It worked surprisingly well, and I've used the collected wisdom of Moses→Saladin→Ayn Rand→the Beatles→Sesame Street→web 2.0 blogs and sites→My Little Pony / Taylor Swift and my own intuition and trial and error.</p><p>It took me about 6-to-8 weeks, and I suffered from the conditions of the hospital, but otherwise was able to hone my skills in benevolent psychological warfare, and also started writing some essays with my limited computing resources there.</p></section><div class="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.beauty_and_the_geek" class="footnote"><p><a href="#beauty_and_the_geek" class="para"><sup class="para">[beauty-and-the-geek] </sup></a>It is wrong to <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour.html#pbride_philosophers">look down on reality show contestants</a> (and more recently - YouTubers) who, like older forms of entertainers / philosophers, are seeking recognition and fame. However, the show <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beauty_and_the_Geek">Beauty and the Geek</a> was doomed to failure because not only are most attractive girls increasingly attracted to geeks, but they are increasingly quite geeky themselves.</p><p>As funny as the <a class="link" href="http://itre.cis.upenn.edu/~myl/languagelog/archives/002892.html">"Math is hard. Let's go shopping!"</a> meme is, you can be a geek even if you are not too good at maths, and even shopping is a skill that can be honed.</p></div></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hacking-heroism.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Hacking and Heroism vs. Conformism and Tragedy </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>