<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="great-hackers.xhtml" title="Great Hackers"/><link rel="next" href="make-your-own-kind-of-music.xhtml" title="Make your own kind of music / Take your qualities to your advantage"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="great-hackers.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="make-your-own-kind-of-music.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="hacker-monarchs" class="title">The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml#hacker-monarchs-nature">The nature of The Hacker Monarchs</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml#notable-hacker-monarchs">Some notable hacker monarchs</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml#hacker-monarchs-fallability">Hacker Monarchs being Fallible</a></span></li><li><span class="section"><a href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml#other-names-for-hacker-monarchs">Other names for Hacker Monarchs</a></span></li></ul></div><p>Traditionally in history, some great hackers have been motivated enough to change the world or improve it, and let no obstacle permanently stop them. They have become so powerful that they took over the direction of the world and together with some collaborators and supporters became sources of greatness. This is even though some of them were clearly or presumably fictional.</p><p>We'll call them the "Hacker Monarchs" ("Hacker Kings" / "Hacker Queens") which is a less loaded title than "Messiahs".</p><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="hacker-monarchs-nature" class="title">The nature of The Hacker Monarchs</h3></div></div></div><p>We are still figuring out more and more guidelines for how a hacker monarch should behave, and likely there'll be future insights.</p><p>In <a class="link" href="https://memory-alpha.fandom.com/wiki/Grand_Nagus">the article about the Grand Nagus in Star Trek DS9</a>, Quark is quoted as saying «Oh believe me, the Nagus has the greatest business mind in the entire Ferengi Alliance, always thinking ten, sometimes twenty steps ahead of everyone else.» and this is similar for a hacker monarch who is often ahead of the curve. A messiah also attempts to always think a few steps ahead.</p><p>A hacker monarch believes that the correct answer to the question "Who is the most powerful person on Earth?" is "I am". Furthermore, the only less powerful people are those who answer otherwise.</p><p>They also know they can improve themselves, improve the world at large, and enjoy themselves at the same time.</p><p>In addition, a hacker monarch wishes no man or woman to unnecessarily suffer or die prematurely and from unnatural causes. They also want <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pygmalion_effect">every person and collective to improve and become better</a> (= the Pygmalion effect as opposed to <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golem_effect">the Golem effect</a>).</p><p>A hacker monarch <span class="bold"><strong>is</strong></span> <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">their brothers’ keeper</span>”</span> to paraphrase on <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cain_and_Abel">the Cain and Abel myth</a>. For example <a class="link" href="Christina_Grimmie.xhtml" title="Christina Grimmie (1994 - 2016; RIP)">Christina Grimmie</a> has tried to adapt herself and her work to what she thought others wanted for several years before her assassination at age 22 (by a fan who killed himself later almost immediately). While it was ultimately her fault, she had many fans and viewers and friends who could have noticed (including I).</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="notable-hacker-monarchs" class="title">Some notable hacker monarchs</h3></div></div></div><p>Some examples for notable Hacker Monarchs, from my Jewish/Secular Israeli and Western (Near East/Europe/North Americas) bias, are:</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moses">Moses</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyrus_the_Great">Cyrus the Great</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socrates">Socrates</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plato">Plato</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aristotle">Aristotle</a> (believed to have been a band of philosophers with a central poster boy figure)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/So-Who-The-Hell-Is-Qoheleth/">Qoheleth / Ecclesiastes</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>( <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesus">Jesus</a> may have been a hacker monarch, but I have not studied his teachings closely, and have some natural aversion towards Christianity as an Israeli Jew. )</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muhammad">Muhammad</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Saladin_Style/">Saladin</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leonardo_da_Vinci">Leonardo da Vinci</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galileo_Galilei">Galileo Galilei</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isaac_Newton">Isaac Newton</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cardinal_Richelieu">Cardinal Richelieu</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Revolution">The American Revolutionaries</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alexandre_Dumas">Alexandre Dumas</a> (pere)</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jules_Verne">Jules Verne</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Walt_Disney">Walt Disney</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayn_Rand">Ayn Rand</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Beatles">The Beatles</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sesame_Street">Sesame Street</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jim_Henson">Jim Henson</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Muppets">The Muppets</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Stallman">Richard Stallman</a> / <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Larry-Wall/">Larry Wall</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds">Linus Torvalds</a> and other Usenet / FOSS hackers with <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_S._Raymond">Eric S. Raymond</a> writing the Magnus Opus <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/">CatB</a>.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The fictional <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Luc_Picard">Jean-Luc Picard</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The fictional <a class="link" href="https://buffy.fandom.com/wiki/Buffy_Summers">Buffy Summers</a> being the poster girl of "Web 1.0".</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joel_Spolsky">Joel Spolsky</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eric_S._Raymond">Eric S. Raymond</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Graham_(programmer)">Paul Graham (programmer)</a> / <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence_Lessig">Lawrence Lessig</a> / <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish</a> and other software developers and bloggers / web writers of the ~2000-2014 web 2.0/"open content" revolution.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>In <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">Summerschool at the NSA</a>, I believed <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">Summer Glau</a> and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xkcd">Xkcd</a> will succeed me. While other "messiahs" / hacker-monarchs in the past tried to convince everyone else to consider themselves as such, it was only possible after the web became prevalent.</p></li></ol></div><p>Following the <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/me/rindolf/#update_long_live_us_hacker_monarchs">Summer Glau "termination"</a>, it was believed that there now can be many simultaneous hacker monarchs, and that people can try to become ones while not dethroning (or <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sic_transit_gloria_mundi">sic transit gloria mundi</a>) the previous hacker monarchs. <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">We don’t die. We multiply.</span>”</span></p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="hacker-monarchs-fallability" class="title">Hacker Monarchs being Fallible</h3></div></div></div><p>Note that even a hacker monarch may be fallible. Socrates almost got himself killed several times, and then he willingly drank the poison and died. Plato and Aristotle said equally blasphemous things, but learned from Socrates' fate and worked on better delivery so both died as highly revered and respected. The same story repeated itself during the Renaissance with Galileo and Isaac Newton.</p><p>Many Hacker Monarchs were two steps forward and one step back, like the fact Ayn Rand was <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/culture/case-for-commercial-fan-fiction/#open_free_share_steal">anti-Open</a> and <a class="link" href="amateurs.xhtml" title="Amateurs vs. Professionals">anti-Amateur</a> and <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=neo-tech-selfishness">confused selfishness with rational self growth</a>.</p><p>Moreover, I still resent the fact that the characters in <span class="emphasis"><em>Buffy</em></span> were competent, but on the other hand socially inept and lacked sexual assertiveness. This is a false dichotomy that I tried to rectify in <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/stories/">my stories and screenplays</a> where the characters are both competent and socially capable.</p><p>Having read <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Three_Musketeers"><span class="emphasis"><em>The Three Musketeers</em></span></a>, Dumas’ magnus opus, I recall feeling intimated by the competence and resourcefulness of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Milady_de_Winter">Milady de Winter</a>, until I eventually realised that despite being the antagonist, or because of that, she was the ultimate good in the book, and she became my epitome of sexiness in fiction. I disliked the fact that Dumas killed her so much, that I set out to carve different destinies for her in <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Selina-Mandrake/"><span class="emphasis"><em>Selina Mandrake - The Slayer</em></span></a> and for <a class="link" href="https://buffy.fandom.com/wiki/Faith_Lehane">Faith</a> (her rough equivalent in <span class="emphasis"><em>Buffy the Vampire Slayer</em></span>) in <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/"><span class="emphasis"><em>Buffy - a Few Good Slayers</em></span></a>.</p><p>So if you have a criticism against even the greatest hackers, voice it - we <a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Encourage_criticism_and_try_to_get_offended/">can only benefit from it</a>. Also see <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Emperor%27s_New_Clothes">The Emperor's New Clothes</a> .</p></section><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="other-names-for-hacker-monarchs" class="title">Other names for Hacker Monarchs</h3></div></div></div><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>Hacker Kings / Hacker Queens ("Hacker Queen Regnent").</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://memory-alpha.fandom.com/wiki/Kahless_the_Unforgettable">Warrior King</a> / Warrior Queen / Warrior Queen Regnent / Warrior Monarch</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_of_Kings">King of Kings</a></p><div class="itemizedlist"><ul class="itemizedlist"><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="http://shlomifishswiki.branchable.com/Fluttershy__44___Princess_of_Princesses__44___head_of_the_secret_cabal_leadership_of_the_Mossad__44___the_already_top_secret_intelligence_agency_of_the_Zionist_conspiracy/">"Princess of Princesses"</a></p></li></ul></div></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UHZuLMFfriQ">Best of the Best of the Best</a></p></li><li class="listitem"><p>In <a class="link" href="https://buffyfanfiction.fandom.com/wiki/Selinaverse">the Selinaverse</a> they are referred to as "Q"s or later as "Sith"s.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p><a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=sharp-gamedev--make-everyone--messiahs">A "Pope"</a> by Principia Discordia.</p></li></ol></div></section></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="great-hackers.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="make-your-own-kind-of-music.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Great Hackers </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Make your own kind of music / Take your qualities to your advantage</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>