<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Make your own kind of music / Take your qualities to your advantage</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml" title="The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs"/><link rel="next" href="time-is-much-more-important-than-money.xhtml" title="Time &gt;&gt; Money"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Make your own kind of music / Take your qualities to your advantage</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="time-is-much-more-important-than-money.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="make-your-own-kind-of-music" class="title">Make your own kind of music / Take your qualities to your advantage</h2></div></div></div><p>Similar to the <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SbSM02_1k34">Mama Cass Elliot song "make your own kind of music"</a> or its Lady Gaga modernisation <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xG0wi1m-89o">"Born This Way"</a>, I have given an interpretation of <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ongoing-text.html#faith-s-childhood">Captain Nemo</a> (= "nobody" in Latin, and not to be confused with Nemo from the animated film <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Finding_Nemo">Finding Nemo</a>) in Jules Verne's novel <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twenty_Thousand_Leagues_Under_the_Sea">20,000 Leagues Under the Sea</a>, whom people keep finding interesting for what he believes are superficial reasons. But these qualities are part of what makes us who we are.</p><p id="Cimorelli-ren">The YouTuber band <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cimorelli">Cimorelli</a> has used the fact that they are six sisters (who also have five male brothers) in a large Roman Catholic family, a trend which has received a lot of antagonism, from environmentalists, psychologists and the media, to their advantage, and as a gimmick. As a result, they published many videos of them covering hit songs, some original songs, and have been live performing and collaborating with other singers and entertainers.</p><p>Naturally, they are not the only YouTube success story. But if you get an opportunity, seize it. Were you invited to give a talk? Go for it. Even if you were invited from the "wrong" reason, you will pave the road for future lecturers. A sociology student invited you to talk to them about your work as an open source / open content creator? Go for it. You thought of a new <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/">Chuck Norris/etc. factoid</a>? Write it down and share it on social media and chat. Someone asked you out and you like them and are single? Go for it. You have an idea for a nice video, story, screenplay, song, etc. Execute it.</p><p>I used to be jealous of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ayn_Rand">Ayn Rand</a> for writing so lucidly and coherently in <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Fountainhead"><span class="emphasis"><em>The Fountainhead</em></span></a> and in <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlas_Shrugged"><span class="emphasis"><em>Atlas Shrugged</em></span></a>, whereas my style of screenplays and stories was what I described as <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Staccato">"staccato"</a> where I do not mention any unnecessary details. However, Rand likely felt the same way about <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fyodor_Dostoevsky">Dostoevsky</a> and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leo_Tolstoy">Tolstoy</a>, whose overly verbose style is now the terror and hatred of many Literature students.</p><p>Similarly, current and future generations will likely appreciate my staccato style more than Ayn Rand’s. Make your own kind of music!</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="time-is-much-more-important-than-money.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top">  Time &gt;&gt; Money</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>