<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Managing Your Memory</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="forgiveness.xhtml" title="Forgiveness"/><link rel="next" href="selling-for-stupider-ppl.xhtml" title="Selling for people stupider than you"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Managing Your Memory</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="forgiveness.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="selling-for-stupider-ppl.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="managing-your-memory" class="title">Managing Your Memory</h2></div></div></div><p>As I wrote in <a class="link" href="http://unarmed.shlomifish.org/1991.html">Sherlock Holmes about Awk</a>:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>I enjoyed reading some of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s writings about the fictional detective <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sherlock_Holmes">Sherlock Holmes</a> when I was younger, which were entertaining (although possibly distanced from the way actual crime investigation actually works), and interesting. I vividly recall one excerpt from the very first Sherlock Holmes story <a class="link" href="http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/A_Study_in_Scarlet">A Study in Scarlet</a>:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>His ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge. Of contemporary literature, philosophy and politics he appeared to know next to nothing. Upon my quoting Thomas Carlyle, he enquired in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done. My surprise reached a climax, however, when I found incidentally that he was ignorant of the Copernican Theory and of the composition of the Solar System. That any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not be aware that the earth travelled round the sun appeared to be to me such an extraordinary fact that I could hardly realize it.</p><p>"You appear to be astonished," he said, smiling at my expression of surprise. "Now that I do know it I shall do my best to forget it."</p><p>"To forget it!"</p><p>"You see," he explained, "I consider that a man's brain originally is like a little empty attic, and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose. A fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across, so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out, or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things, so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it. Now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain attic. He will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work, but of these he has a large assortment, and all in the most perfect order. It is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent. Depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before. It is of the highest importance, therefore, not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones."</p><p>"But the Solar System!" I protested.</p><p>"What the deuce is it to me?" he interrupted impatiently; "you say that we go round the sun. If we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or to my work."</p></blockquote></div><p>(<a class="link" href="http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/A_Study_in_Scarlet/Part_1/Chapter_2">Chapter 2 of A Study in Scarlet</a> by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, under the public domain in most countries.)</p><p>Conan Doyle was naturally exaggerating here in portraying the ideal of Sherlock Holmes (as few, if any, human beings can forget that the Earth revolves around the Sun), but the principle still stands: we need to make a conscious decision of how to manage our memory, because there is a limit to how many different aspects can put inside our resident memory, or otherwise we'll forget more important stuff.</p><p>So what does it has to do with the Awk programming language? Many decades after A Study in Scarlet, <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/esr/">Eric S. Raymond</a> had this to say in his book <a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/esr/writings/taoup/"><span class="emphasis"><em>The Art of Unix Programming</em></span></a>:</p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>A case study of awk is included to point out that it is not a model for emulation; in fact, since 1990 it has largely fallen out of use. It has been superseded by new-school scripting languages—notably Perl, which was explicitly designed to be an awk killer. The reasons are worthy of examination, because they constitute a bit of a cautionary tale for minilanguage designers.</p><p>The awk language was originally designed to be a small, expressive special-purpose language for report generation. Unfortunately, it turns out to have been designed at a bad spot on the complexity-vs.-power curve. The action language is noncompact, but the pattern-driven framework it sits inside keeps it from being generally applicable — that's the worst of both worlds. And the new-school scripting languages can do anything awk can; their equivalent programs are usually just as readable, if not more so.</p><p>For a few years after the release of Perl in 1987, awk remained competitive simply because it had a smaller, faster implementation. But as the cost of compute cycles and memory dropped, the economic reasons for favoring a special-purpose language that was relatively thrifty with both lost their force. Programmers increasingly chose to do awklike things with Perl or (later) Python, rather than <span class="strong"><strong>keep two different scripting languages in their heads</strong></span>.[90] By the year 2000 awk had become little more than a memory for most old-school Unix hackers, and not a particularly nostalgic one.</p><p>Falling costs have changed the tradeoffs in minilanguage design. Restricting your design's capabilities to buy compactness may still be a good idea, but doing so to economize on machine resources is a bad one. Machine resources get cheaper over time, but <span class="strong"><strong>space in programmers' heads only gets more expensive</strong></span>. Modern minilanguages can either be general but noncompact, or specialized but very compact; specialized but noncompact simply won't compete.</p></blockquote></div><p>(Emphasis mine.)</p><p>(<a class="link" href="http://www.catb.org/esr/writings/taoup/html/ch08s02.html#awk">Case Study: awk in minilanguages</a> in <span class="emphasis"><em>The Art of Unix Programming</em></span> by Eric Steven Raymond, text available under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonDerivatives licence, and hopefully quoted here (with attribution) under <a class="link" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fair_use">fair use</a> auspices.)</p></blockquote></div><p>I still keep awk out of my resident memory, but there are many other things I do not remember nor care enough to. For example, I do not remember the names of the current Israeli president or that of the current <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chief_of_the_General_Staff_(Israel)">Israeli Chief of the General Staff</a>. I am almost sure they are both great people, but remembering their names is pointless for me.</p><p>We have to manage our memory with care, or we'll forget stuff that is much more important.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="forgiveness.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="selling-for-stupider-ppl.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Forgiveness </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Selling for people stupider than you</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>