<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What do "able" and "competent" imply?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="one-tin-soldier.xhtml" title="&quot;One Tin Soldier&quot; and the senselessness of destruction"/><link rel="next" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml" title="Taylor Swift"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What do "able" and "competent" imply?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="one-tin-soldier.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="meaning-of-able-competent" class="title">What do "able" and "competent" imply?</h2></div></div></div><div class="toc"><ul class="toc"><li><span class="section"><a href="meaning-of-able-competent.xhtml#sexiness-as-competence">Sexiness as Competence</a></span></li></ul></div><p>Karl Marx famously <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/From_each_according_to_his_ability,_to_each_according_to_his_needs">remarked</a></p><div class="blockquote"><blockquote class="blockquote"><p>From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs</p></blockquote></div><p>However, this is wrong because we should encourage people to be more able and more competent, and be less needy. So assuming we wish people to be more able, how do we measure it?</p><div class="orderedlist"><ol class="orderedlist" type="1"><li class="listitem"><p>The first measure of ability is <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Money">Money</a> - the more money you have the more goods you can afford, the more you can give, donate, lend, or invest, and the more free time you have to do creative works.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>The second measure of ability is <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1175430272130650112">Fame</a>, the more people heard about you the more places will invite you to be present and even pay you for your time.</p><p>Fame has got a bad reputation lately, but I believe it is undeserved. Even if you are famous, you do not necessarily have to suffer from it.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p id="paris_hilton">The third measure is "luck" which is which opportunities you seize. The media went out of its way to present <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paris_Hilton">Paris Hilton</a>, who was the canonical "alpha female" in the world throughout several years between 2000 and 2014, as incompetent, talentless, stupid, and lucky to have been a heiress by birth. However, despite that, she was the opposite of most of these. Moreover, if she utilised her initial state to her own advantage, then all the power to her.</p><p>Earlier in 1982, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samantha_Smith">Samantha Smith</a> may have been lucky for her letter to have arrived to the Soviet leader, but she hoped for that and planned that. It is likely that her friends found her a little "weird" for her habit of sending letters, given my friends looked down on a similar habit I had in the early 1990s before the prevalence of the Internet.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>In today's Internet's social media, one can get a cheaper indication of some these, using views, upvotes, likes, "karma", reposts, replies, etc.</p></li><li class="listitem"><p>Naturally, abilities can refer to your various artistic, craftsmanship, sports, social, and intellectual skills.</p></li></ol></div><section id="daily_gradvice_conclusion" class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h3 id="sexiness-as-competence" class="title">Sexiness as Competence</h3></div></div></div><p>Now here is something interesting: there is a strong correlation between how able you are and how sexually desirable you are to members-of-the-appropriate-sexes (MOTAS) (who may still be attracted to you whether or not you or they are in a relationship.).</p><p>Furthermore, <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fitness_(biology)">fitness in biology</a> in humans corresponds more to sexual attractiveness than to <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_fitness">physical fitness</a>. In the United Kingdom, the adjective "fit" has started to mean "sexy", "hot", "attractive" or "desirable" including such MOTAS who are not too athletic.</p><p>Some people may still think that sexual attractiveness is indicative of incompetence and bad form, but the opposite is true. Back when I referred a deaf friend of mine to the video <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=21uXcvD5lPs">Daily Gradvice</a> (tongue-in-cheek sex/love/etc. advice by <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grace_Helbig">Grace Helbig</a>) he complained that the quality of the subtitles there (which were generated by automatic <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speech_recognition">Speech recognition</a>) was like "her butt before she cleans it up". I took offence for that because I knew she was a wonderful lady and that was <span class="bold"><strong>because</strong></span> she was so sexy and sexualised, not despite that.</p><a href="#ftn.daily_gradvice_conclusion" class="footnote"><sup class="footnote">[conclusion]</sup></a></section><div class="footnotes"><br/><hr class="footnote-hr"/><div id="ftn.daily_gradvice_conclusion" class="footnote"><p><a href="#daily_gradvice_conclusion" class="para"><sup class="para">[conclusion] </sup></a>The end of the story is that I told my friend that I would try to prepare better subtitles which he and others would be able to use. While his original insulting delayed that, I eventually yielded <a class="link" href="https://github.com/shlomif/subtitles-for-dailygrace-on-youtube">functional subtitles</a> for the video, which my deaf friend was able to use (and can be used by everyone else who wishes to use them).</p></div></div></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="one-tin-soldier.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Taylor_Swift.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">"One Tin Soldier" and the senselessness of destruction </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Taylor Swift</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>