<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>Taylor Swift</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="meaning-of-able-competent.xhtml" title="What do &quot;able&quot; and &quot;competent&quot; imply?"/><link rel="next" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml" title="Chuck Norris"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">Taylor Swift</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="meaning-of-able-competent.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="Taylor_Swift" class="title">Taylor Swift</h2></div></div></div><p>We were <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=sharp-gnu--think-big">discussing</a> Apple's <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swift_(programming_language)">Swift language</a> the other day on the <a class="link" href="irc://irc.freenode.net/#gnu">#gnu</a> chat room on freenode when I told someone there that he should charge 300 USD/hour for Swift projects because he disliked them so much. I also said the high fee may yield <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=joel-camels-rubber-duckies-11">a higher demand</a>. Then, since I had a browser window open with the most followed Twitter accounts and <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_Swift">Taylor Swift</a> was there, I noted she likely charges more than 300 USD/hour for her live shows. He told me that she shared her name with that language, and I noted that she should sue Apple for trademark violations of the supposed "Swift" trademark - and win. I joked that if "Apple sued Taylor Swift for violation of their Apple Swift language's trademark they will spend all their money in the bank on litigation and still lose.". Ha ha only serious.</p><p>I then realised that Ms. Swift has become a <a class="link" href="hacker-monarchs.xhtml" title="The Hacker Monarchs / Messiahs">Hacker Queen</a> by that time. While I think her face is good eye candy, she is not that beautiful in my opinion (but I think she looks <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IdneKLhsWOQ">much hotter with black hair</a> than with her trademark blonde hair). Nevertheless, there are many things we can learn from her.</p><p>First of all is that she exemplifies the <a class="link" href="amateurs.xhtml" title="Amateurs vs. Professionals">amateur model</a>, because she does stuff for fun, rather than for money.</p><p>Her videos despite often being popular probably do not offset their production value in ads, but they are good publicity, provide fodder for remixes, parodies and covers, and are fun enough to produce so she can afford to offset the cost. She doesn't work for money or even for a shitload of money. She works for fun.</p><p>Moreover, Taylor is an unapologetic <a class="link" href="https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/attention_whore">"attention whore"</a> who often spends large amounts of money or even also time in activities that will make her look like a better person or more well known. Note that per <a class="link" href="https://www.chabad.org/library/bible_cdo/aid/16006/jewish/Chapter-9.htm">Jeremiah chapter 9 22-23</a>, <span class="quote">“<span class="quote">Thus says the Lord: Let not the wise man boast of his wisdom, nor the strong man boast of his strength, nor the rich man boast of his riches. But let him that boasts exult in this, that he understands and knows me, for I am the Lord Who practices kindness, justice and righteousness on the earth; for in these things I delight, says the Lord.</span>”</span> I not only hold it against her, but encourage other do-gooders to do the same. Furthermore, to paraphrase <a class="link" href="https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0106941/">the film "For Love or Money"</a> she doesn't do it because she seeks attention - she does it because she cares.</p><p>Otherwise, Taylor Swift is a great philanthropist who likely <a class="link" href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/show.cgi?id=shlomif-fact-taylor-swift-6">also donates to friendly individuals</a> and realises that one should <a class="link" href="https://biblehub.com/ecclesiastes/11-1.htm">"cast your bread upon the waters"</a> to quote the wonderful Biblical scroll of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecclesiastes">Ecclesiastes</a>.</p><p>One advice I can give to Ms. Swift is to stop "speaking in riddles" which was also an issue of <a class="link" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terry_Pratchett">Terry Pratchett’s books</a> and previously Ayn Rand's. I registered that idiom from the lyrics of <a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNzj55CEoMI">a cover of Swift's song "Ours"</a> (which I now much malign). I recommend she start writing a public snapshot of her personal philosophy ("Taytayism" or whatever) similar to my <a class="link" href="https://github.com/shlomif/putting-cards-2019-2020">repository of this very document</a>. It can be on GitHub or GitLab, or perhaps Google Docs.</p><p>Another piece of advice is to <a class="link" href="YouTube.xhtml#emulate-YouTubers">emulate YouTubers</a> and start an "indie" YouTube channel, but this is not particularly specific to her.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="meaning-of-able-competent.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="Chuck_Norris.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">What do "able" and "competent" imply? </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> Chuck Norris</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>