<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>What is Open Source?</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="index.xhtml" title="Objectivism and Open Source"/><link rel="next" href="what_is_objectivism.xhtml" title="What is Objectivism?"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">What is Open Source?</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="what_is_objectivism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="what_is_open_source" class="title">What is Open Source?</h2></div></div></div><p>Open source is a relatively new name for a relatively old phenomenon that is also called “free software”. (this term preceded “open source” but it too came a long time after the phenomenon emerged). I have written <a class="link" href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/foss-other-beasts/">a previous introduction to this phenomenon</a> which I advise to read if you’re not familiar at all with the term.</p><p>To sum up, an open source program is a program that is accompanied with its original source code and can be freely used, modified, and re-distributed without any charge. It is possible to charge money for a package that contains free software components, but generally it is not economical to base a business on it, because of the fact that it can later on be freely distributed.</p><p>Some of the landmarks of the open source movement are the <a class="link" href="http://gcc.gnu.org/">GCC-based software development kit</a>, the <a class="link" href="http://www.apache.org/">Apache web-server</a> and other Internet servers, the <a class="link" href="http://www.mozilla.org/">Mozilla project with its Firefox browser and other applications</a>, various high-level languages such as <a class="link" href="http://www.perl.org/">Perl</a>, <a class="link" href="http://www.python.org/">Python</a>, <a class="link" href="http://www.tcl.tk/">Tcl</a> or <a class="link" href="http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/">Ruby</a>; the <a class="link" href="http://www.x.org/">X-Windows Graphics System</a> and desktops built on top. There are also several operating systems whose every essential component is open source. They include the <a class="link" href="http://www.linux.org/">Linux (or GNU/Linux) Operating System</a>, and some of the <a class="link" href="http://www.bsd.org/">various BSDs</a></p><p>Open source software provides a low-cost, highly customisable, and often more reliable or technically superior alternative to commercial, non-free software. The open source world maintains an online web of mailing lists, web forums, IRC channels, web-sites and other resources with which people who are more knowledgeable in some respects help their less experienced peers.</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="index.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="what_is_objectivism.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">Objectivism and Open Source </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> What is Objectivism?</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>