<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en"><head><title>TRIZ</title><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="docbook.css"/><link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/><meta name="generator" content="DocBook XSL Shlomif"/><link rel="prev" href="evil_html_email.xhtml" title="“That would be as Evil as HTML E-mail is…”"/><link rel="next" href="divine_is_good.xhtml" title="“Divine”’s Good"/></head><body><header><div class="center ads_top"/><div class="navheader"><table style="width:100%"><tr><th style="text-align:center" colspan="3">TRIZ</th></tr><tr><td style="width:20%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="evil_html_email.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><th style="width:60%;text-align:center"> </th><td style="width:20%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="divine_is_good.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr></table><hr/></div></header><section class="section"><div class="titlepage"><div><div><h2 id="triz" class="title">TRIZ</h2></div></div></div><p>At one of our semi-weekly gym sessions, Taylor and I discussed the latest happenings and traded gossip. Somehow, the conversation got to Taylor’s current girlfriend, Rebecca, and then Taylor said:</p><p>“Becky broke up with me.”</p><p>“Really?” I said. “I’m shocked. I actually kinda liked her, and you two seemed so happy together.”</p><p>“I know, I liked her too.”</p><p>“Are you OK?”</p><p>“Yes, I’m fine. In any case - I have a great idea for a very nice girl I’d like to ask out, and wanted to for a long time.”</p><p>“Really? Who?”</p><p>“Oh, I want it to be a surprise.”</p><p>“Fair enough.” I said and we decided to go back to exercising.</p><p>The next LUG meeting, I arrived relatively late, only to see Erisa standing with her back against the wall, next to a guy standing facing her with his hand on the wall. They were talking happily, and Erisa laughed a lot. It was obvious from Erisa’s movements that she was feeling flirtatious.</p><p>“Another one bites the dust.” I thought to myself and decided to approach her. “Hi Erisa!” I said.</p><p>“Hey Jenn, what’s up?” Erisa said and then the guy next to her turned around to see me and said “Jennifer, hi! What’s up?”. It was Taylor.</p><p>“Taylor!” I said surprisingly, “… hmmmm, can you and I talk outside for a moment? Out… side…?”</p><p>“Sure. Erisa, can you excuse us?” he said.</p><p>“No problem.” she said.</p><p>After we went out and got farther away from the room I said, “So it’s Erisa, isn’t it?”</p><p>“You mean the girl I’m asking out? Yes.”</p><p>“Are you out of your mind? Don’t you know how she treats her dates? She usually asks them not to call her back!”</p><p>“Yeah, I know. Not always, though. And I feel that she became a lot more solid since she started tutoring you.”</p><p>“Possibly. But she’s still full of it.”</p><p>“Jenn, don’t worry too much. We’ll go on a couple of dates and if she won’t be interested, I promise to you that I’m not going to get hurt. But it’s worth giving it a shot.”</p><p>“OK,” I said, “so when’s your first date?”</p><p>“Friday’s night.”</p><p>“OK.” I wasn’t particularly happy about that. I cared too much about both of them.</p><p>When I returned home this night, I started talking on the #perl channel again, my mind still occupied by this.</p><pre class="programlisting">

          &lt;jennray&gt;  Hi all, I’m back.
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  jennray: hi!
             &lt;beth&gt;  hi jennray!
          &lt;jennray&gt;  Hey beth, rindolf.
                --&gt;  perlygatekeeper has joined #perl
  &lt;perlygatekeeper&gt;  Good morning, #perl!
             &lt;beth&gt;  good morning, perly!
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  Hi perly!
          &lt;jennray&gt;  Hi perly.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  Can I consult you guys on a personal matter?
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  jennray: shoot.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  OK, here goes: my best friend (a boy) has started dating
                     a good friend of mine, who treats her dates awfully,
                     and looks positively awful (purple hair, too much and
                     inconsistent makeup, and general neglect).
          &lt;jennray&gt;  She’s not really what his type of girls was so far, so
                     I’m afraid he’s going to get hurt. What should I do?
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  jennray: TRIZ!
          &lt;jennray&gt;  rindolf: what’s TRIZ?
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  TRIZ == Theory of Inventive Problem Solving.
                  *  jennray is puzzled
          &lt;jennray&gt;  That should be TIPS.
          &lt;rindolf&gt;  jennray: well, these are the initials in Russian.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  rindolf: ah OK.
  &lt;perlygatekeeper&gt;  jennray: why don’t you just perform a makeover on this
                     girl and get her to at least look better.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  But what about her attitude?
  &lt;perlygatekeeper&gt;  Well, one bird in the hand is better than two in the
                     bush.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  perly: you might be right.
                  *  rindolf gives perlygatekeeper the international TRIZ
                     medal.
          &lt;jennray&gt;  perlygatekeeper++

    </pre><p>After this, I picked up the phone and called Jeff. “Jeff, you know Erisa, right?”</p><p>“Yep. ” he said.</p><p>“She doesn’t look too athletic, but does she pump iron or practice martial arts?”</p><p>“Oh no - she hates exercise. She says she’d rather exercise her mind than her body. Why?”</p><p>“I have this absolutely wicked idea…”</p></section><footer><div class="navfooter"><hr/><table style="width:100%"><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left"><a accesskey="p" href="evil_html_email.xhtml">Prev</a> </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"> </td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right"> <a accesskey="n" href="divine_is_good.xhtml">Next</a></td></tr><tr><td style="width:40%;text-align:left;vertical-align:top">“That would be as Evil as HTML E-mail is…” </td><td style="width:20%;text-align:center"><a accesskey="h" href="index.xhtml">Home</a></td><td style="width:40%;text-align:right;vertical-align:top"> “Divine”’s Good</td></tr></table></div></footer></body></html>